en_us/shared/course_features/proctored_exams/proctored_managing.rst, before:

.. _Managing Proctored Exams:

########################
Managing Proctored Exams
########################

When you administer a proctored exam in your course, learners might have
questions or concerns about the exam. Usually, you can direct learners to the
FAQ section on edx.org or to `Taking Timed and Proctored Exams`_ in the edX
Help Center to answer their questions.

If learners need accommodations for disabilities, or have a technical problem
with the exam, you work with edX support to determine a solution on a
case by case basis.

.. _Respond to Learner Concerns about Proctored Exams:

**************************************
Accommodate Learners with Disabilities
**************************************

A learner may request and qualify for a disability accommodation to a
proctored exam, such as an additional time allowance or an exam policy
exception allowing a personal care assistant in the room.

.. note::
  Make sure the learner who has requested special accommodations, including
  additional time, does not start taking the proctored exam before you set up
  the accommodation.

  If you need to allow more time for the learner, see :ref:`Grant
  Learners More Time for a Timed Exam`.

To make a special policy accommodation for a learner, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Special Exams**.

#. Expand **Allowance Section**.

#. Select **Add Allowance**.

   The **Add a New Allowance** dialog box opens.

#. For **Special Exam**, select the subsection that contains the proctored
   exam.

#. For **Allowance Type**, select **Review Policy Exception**.

#. Add a description of the allowance, such as the following example.

   ``Learner has a disability. Allow one additional person in the room.``

#. For **Username** or **Email**, enter the learner's information.

#. Select **Save**.

When you have set up the allowance, let the learner know that their special
allowance has been granted.

When the proctoring service reviews the learner’s proctored exam results, the
reviewer takes the special allowance into account.


.. _Resuming Proctored Exams in an Error State:

******************************************
Resuming Proctored Exams in an Error State
******************************************

If a learner encounters an error while taking a proctored exam and cannot
continue, their exam attempt can be manually resumed with their answers and
time remaining saved.

The procedures for allowing learners to resume a proctored exam and a timed
exam are the same. To allow learners to resume an exam, see :ref:`Resuming
an Exam in an Error State`.


.. _Requests for Retaking a Proctored Exam:

******************************************
Allow Learners to Retake a Proctored Exam
******************************************

If a learner needs to retake a proctored exam, you can clear
their existing exam attempt and allow them to retake the exam.

The procedures for allowing learners to retake a proctored exam and a timed
exam are the same. To allow learners to retake an exam, see :ref:`Allow
Learners to Retake a Timed Exam`.


.. _CA_Situations_Learners_Encounter_Proctored_Exams:

*************************************************
Manage Technical Problems During a Proctored Exam
*************************************************

For information about what learners should do if they experience technical
problems during an exam, see `Technical problems during a proctored exam`_ in
the edX Help Center.


.. _View_Proctortrack_Onboarding_Status:

***********************************
View Proctortrack Onboarding Status
***********************************

Proctortrack requires all learners to complete an onboarding process before 
they take a proctored exam. In the onboarding process, learners download and
install the necessary client software and verify their identity with 
Proctortrack. 

.. note::  Onboarding includes a mandatory identity verification step which 
   establishes an identity baseline with Verificient. This is required to gain
   access to the first Proctored Exam, and can take 5+ business days for
   learners to complete. See :ref:`Create a Proctored Exam with Proctortrack`
   for more information.

To view learners' onboarding status for your course, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Special Exams**.

#. Expand **Student Onboarding Status**.

#. Each entry can be filtered by username, email, or type of status. The following
   statuses are available:

   #. **Not Started**: Learner has not started the onboarding process.

   #. **Setup Started**: Learner has started downloading the proctoring software.

   #. **Proctoring Started**: Learner has started the onboarding exam.

   #. **Submitted**: The onboarding exam attempt has been submitted for review.

   #. **Verified**: The attempt has been verified, and the learner's onboarding status
      is valid for two years from the last modified date.

   #. **Approved in Another Course**: The learner has an approved onboarding profile in
      another course, so they are effectively approved in any course for two years from
      the last modified date. However, they can still complete the onboarding exam in
      your course if desired.

   #. **Rejected**: The attempt has been rejected, and the learner must retake the
      onboarding exam.

   #. **Error**: The learner encountered an error while taking the onboarding exam,
      and their attempt must be reset.

      .. note::  Learners can self-service reset their onboarding exam. See
         `Checking Your Onboarding Status and Resetting Your Onboarding Exam`_ in
         the edX Help Center.


.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst

Commit message:

Added documentation on how to use the Bulk Allowance modal.

en_us/shared/course_features/proctored_exams/proctored_managing.rst, after:

.. _Managing Proctored Exams:

########################
Managing Proctored Exams
########################

When you administer a proctored exam in your course, learners might have
questions or concerns about the exam. Usually, you can direct learners to the
FAQ section on edx.org or to `Taking Timed and Proctored Exams`_ in the edX
Help Center to answer their questions.

If learners need accommodations for disabilities, or have a technical problem
with the exam, you work with edX support to determine a solution on a
case by case basis.

.. _Respond to Learner Concerns about Proctored Exams:

**************************************
Accommodate Learners with Disabilities
**************************************

A learner may request and qualify for a disability accommodation to a
proctored exam, such as an additional time allowance or an exam policy
exception allowing a personal care assistant in the room.

.. note::
  Make sure the learner who has requested special accommodations, including
  additional time, does not start taking the proctored exam before you set up
  the accommodation.

  If you need to allow more time for the learner, see :ref:`Grant
  Learners More Time for a Timed Exam`.

To make a special policy accommodation for a learner, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Special Exams**.

#. Expand **Allowance Section**.

#. Select **Add Allowance**.

   The **Add a New Allowance** dialog box opens.

#. For **Special Exam**, select the subsection that contains the proctored
   exam.

#. For **Allowance Type**, select **Review Policy Exception**.

#. Add a description of the allowance, such as the following example.

   ``Learner has a disability. Allow one additional person in the room.``

#. For **Username** or **Email**, enter the learner's information.

#. Select **Save**.

Under the new bulk allowance modal, follow these steps to add exceptions in bulk.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Special Exams**.

#. Expand **Allowance Section**.

#. Select **Add Allowance**.

   The **Add a New Allowance** dialog box opens.

#. For **Username** or **Email**, enter all the learners' emails/usernames seperated by a comma that you wish to add an exception for.

#. For **Select Exam Type**, select **Proctored Exams**

#. For **Select Exams**, click on the desired exams you want to add an exception for.

#. For **Allowance Type**, select **Review Policy Exception**.

#. Add a description of the allowance, such as the following example.

   ``Learner has a disability. Allow one additional person in the room.``


#. Select **Create Allowance**.

When you have set up the allowance, let the learner know that their special
allowance has been granted.

When the proctoring service reviews the learner’s proctored exam results, the
reviewer takes the special allowance into account.


.. _Resuming Proctored Exams in an Error State:

******************************************
Resuming Proctored Exams in an Error State
******************************************

If a learner encounters an error while taking a proctored exam and cannot
continue, their exam attempt can be manually resumed with their answers and
time remaining saved.

The procedures for allowing learners to resume a proctored exam and a timed
exam are the same. To allow learners to resume an exam, see :ref:`Resuming
an Exam in an Error State`.


.. _Requests for Retaking a Proctored Exam:

******************************************
Allow Learners to Retake a Proctored Exam
******************************************

If a learner needs to retake a proctored exam, you can clear
their existing exam attempt and allow them to retake the exam.

The procedures for allowing learners to retake a proctored exam and a timed
exam are the same. To allow learners to retake an exam, see :ref:`Allow
Learners to Retake a Timed Exam`.


.. _CA_Situations_Learners_Encounter_Proctored_Exams:

*************************************************
Manage Technical Problems During a Proctored Exam
*************************************************

For information about what learners should do if they experience technical
problems during an exam, see `Technical problems during a proctored exam`_ in
the edX Help Center.


.. _View_Proctortrack_Onboarding_Status:

***********************************
View Proctortrack Onboarding Status
***********************************

Proctortrack requires all learners to complete an onboarding process before 
they take a proctored exam. In the onboarding process, learners download and
install the necessary client software and verify their identity with 
Proctortrack. 

.. note::  Onboarding includes a mandatory identity verification step which 
   establishes an identity baseline with Verificient. This is required to gain
   access to the first Proctored Exam, and can take 5+ business days for
   learners to complete. See :ref:`Create a Proctored Exam with Proctortrack`
   for more information.

To view learners' onboarding status for your course, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Special Exams**.

#. Expand **Student Onboarding Status**.

#. Each entry can be filtered by username, email, or type of status. The following
   statuses are available:

   #. **Not Started**: Learner has not started the onboarding process.

   #. **Setup Started**: Learner has started downloading the proctoring software.

   #. **Proctoring Started**: Learner has started the onboarding exam.

   #. **Submitted**: The onboarding exam attempt has been submitted for review.

   #. **Verified**: The attempt has been verified, and the learner's onboarding status
      is valid for two years from the last modified date.

   #. **Approved in Another Course**: The learner has an approved onboarding profile in
      another course, so they are effectively approved in any course for two years from
      the last modified date. However, they can still complete the onboarding exam in
      your course if desired.

   #. **Rejected**: The attempt has been rejected, and the learner must retake the
      onboarding exam.

   #. **Error**: The learner encountered an error while taking the onboarding exam,
      and their attempt must be reset.

      .. note::  Learners can self-service reset their onboarding exam. See
         `Checking Your Onboarding Status and Resetting Your Onboarding Exam`_ in
         the edX Help Center.


.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst
