en_us/shared/course_features/proctored_exams/proctored_enabling.rst, before:

.. _Enabling Proctored Exams:

########################################
Creating Proctored Exams
########################################

To create a proctored exam, you modify the course proctored exam settings in Studio
to enable proctored exams, and then you modify the settings of a subsection to
specify that the subsection is a proctored exam.

**********************
Enable Proctored Exams
**********************


To enable proctored exams in your course, follow these steps.

#. In Studio, select **Settings**, then select **Proctored Exam Settings**.

#. Locate the **Enable Proctored Exams** policy key. The default for this field
   is to be unchecked, meaning that proctored exams are not enabled.

#. Check the setting to enable proctored exams.

#. Select **Submit**. You can now create proctored exams in your course.

After you enable this setting for your course, you can create a proctored exam
or a practice proctored exam.


.. _Create a Proctored Exam:

**************************************************
Create a Proctored Exam or Practice Proctored Exam
**************************************************

To create a proctored exam or a practice proctored exam, follow these steps.

.. only:: Partners

  .. note::
    Practice proctored exams are visible to all learners, regardless of
    enrollment track.

#. Add and :ref:`develop a subsection <Developing Course Subsections>` as you
   would any other subsection.

   For a practice proctored exam, edX recommends that you include only a few
   problems in this subsection. Or, you could add a unit with a text component
   that provides information about the exam.

#. Select the **Configure** icon for the subsection.

   .. image:: ../../../shared/images/subsections-settings-icon.png
    :alt: A subsection in the course outline with the configure icon indicated.
    :width: 400

   The **Settings** dialog box opens to the **Basic** tab.

#. In the **Grading** section, set the :ref:`assignment type and due date<Set
   the Assignment Type and Due Date for a Subsection>` for the subsection.

   .. note::
    For a practice proctored exam, leave the assignment type as **Not Graded**.

#. Select the **Advanced** tab, and then locate the **Set as a Special Exam**
   section.

#. Select the proctored exam type.

   * For a proctored exam, select **Proctored**.
   * For a practice proctored exam, select **Practice Proctored**.

#. In the **Time Allotted** field, enter the length of time that you want
   to allow for the exam as HH:MM, where HH is hours and MM is minutes.

#. (optional) For a proctored exam, in the **Review Rules** field, enter any
   additions or exceptions to the :ref:`default rules for proctored exams<CA
   Online Proctoring Rules>`. For more information, see
   :ref:`specifying_exam_rules_and_exceptions`.

#. Select **Save**.

.. _specifying_exam_rules_and_exceptions:

**************************************
Specify Exam Rules and Exceptions
**************************************

.. only:: Partners

  By default, reviewers evaluate exam attempts according to a standard set of
  :ref:`online proctoring rules <CA Online Proctoring Rules>` that the
  proctoring service has provided.

.. only:: Open_edX

  The rules for proctoring exams vary according to the proctoring service that
  you or your organization has chosen. However, the :ref:`online proctoring
  rules <CA Online Proctoring Rules>` that this guide lists are common to many
  proctoring services.

.. note::
  The course grace period setting does not apply to proctored exams. For more
  information about the grace period setting, see :ref:`Set the Grace Period`.

You can also provide custom rules for a particular exam. For example, you might
allow learners to use a calculator, or to have one sheet of blank paper. These
rules are visible to reviewers and learners at the start of each proctoring
exam.

To specify custom proctored exam rules, follow these steps.

.. only:: Partners

  .. note::

    Your additional rules must be clear, specific, and easy to understand so
    that reviewers do not incorrectly review a learner’s exam. Use simple
    sentences and words for a global English speaking audience.

#. In Studio, open your course outline and select the subsection for the exam.

#. Select the **Configure** icon to open the **Settings** dialog box.

#. Select the **Advanced** tab, and then locate the **Set as a Special Exam**
   section.

#. In the **Review Rules** field, enter any additional rules. For example, you
   might enter the following rule.

   ``Allow one blank sheet of paper and a pencil or pen. Allow a hand-held
   calculator on the desk.``

#. Select **Save**.



.. _Allow Opting Out of Proctored Exams:

***************************************************
Allow Opting Out of Proctored Exams
***************************************************

.. only:: Partners

  When a proctored exam opens, by default, verified learners are required to take
  the exam as a proctored exam.

  If you want to allow Verified or Master's learners the option to take proctored exams
  without proctoring, please contact your edX partner manager to enable this option.

.. only:: Open_edX

  When a proctored exam opens, by default, learners are required to take the exam
  as a proctored exam. If you want to allow learners to take proctored exams without
  proctoring, you can change a setting on the **Proctored Exam Settings** page
  in Studio.

.. note::
   If a learner opts to take an exam without proctoring, the exam will not be 
   timed either. In effect, learners who opt out of proctoring will have 
   unlimited time to complete the exam and could return to problem sets at 
   any time. You can reduce the ability to view the exam by selecting a due 
   date for the exam.

.. only:: Open_edX

    To enable the option for learners to opt out of proctored exams for a course,
    follow these steps.

    #. In Studio, select **Settings**, then select **Proctored Exam Settings**.

    #. Locate the **Allow Opting Out of Proctored Exams** policy key. The default
       value is ``No``, which requires Verified and Master's learners to take
       proctored exams with proctoring.

    #. Change the value of the setting to ``Yes``.

    #. Select **Submit**.

Commit message:

update practice proctored exam docs to reflect changes to learners' ability to take practice proctored exams as proctored exams when they do not have access to proctored exams

en_us/shared/course_features/proctored_exams/proctored_enabling.rst, after:

.. _Enabling Proctored Exams:

########################################
Creating Proctored Exams
########################################

To create a proctored exam, you modify the course proctored exam settings in Studio
to enable proctored exams, and then you modify the settings of a subsection to
specify that the subsection is a proctored exam.

**********************
Enable Proctored Exams
**********************


To enable proctored exams in your course, follow these steps.

#. In Studio, select **Settings**, then select **Proctored Exam Settings**.

#. Locate the **Enable Proctored Exams** policy key. The default for this field
   is to be unchecked, meaning that proctored exams are not enabled.

#. Check the setting to enable proctored exams.

#. Select **Submit**. You can now create proctored exams in your course.

After you enable this setting for your course, you can create a proctored exam
or a practice proctored exam.


.. _Create a Proctored Exam:

**************************************************
Create a Proctored Exam or Practice Proctored Exam
**************************************************

To create a proctored exam or a practice proctored exam, follow these steps.

.. only:: Partners

  .. note::
    The content of practice proctored exams is visible to all learners, regardless of
    enrollment track. Only learners in a paid enrollment track (e.g. verified,
    Master's, Professional Certificate) will be able to use proctoring software
    when viewing a practice proctored exam.

#. Add and :ref:`develop a subsection <Developing Course Subsections>` as you
   would any other subsection.

   For a practice proctored exam, edX recommends that you include only a few
   problems in this subsection. Or, you could add a unit with a text component
   that provides information about the exam.

#. Select the **Configure** icon for the subsection.

   .. image:: ../../../shared/images/subsections-settings-icon.png
    :alt: A subsection in the course outline with the configure icon indicated.
    :width: 400

   The **Settings** dialog box opens to the **Basic** tab.

#. In the **Grading** section, set the :ref:`assignment type and due date<Set
   the Assignment Type and Due Date for a Subsection>` for the subsection.

   .. note::
    For a practice proctored exam, leave the assignment type as **Not Graded**.

#. Select the **Advanced** tab, and then locate the **Set as a Special Exam**
   section.

#. Select the proctored exam type.

   * For a proctored exam, select **Proctored**.
   * For a practice proctored exam, select **Practice Proctored**.

#. In the **Time Allotted** field, enter the length of time that you want
   to allow for the exam as HH:MM, where HH is hours and MM is minutes.

#. (optional) For a proctored exam, in the **Review Rules** field, enter any
   additions or exceptions to the :ref:`default rules for proctored exams<CA
   Online Proctoring Rules>`. For more information, see
   :ref:`specifying_exam_rules_and_exceptions`.

#. Select **Save**.

.. _specifying_exam_rules_and_exceptions:

**************************************
Specify Exam Rules and Exceptions
**************************************

.. only:: Partners

  By default, reviewers evaluate exam attempts according to a standard set of
  :ref:`online proctoring rules <CA Online Proctoring Rules>` that the
  proctoring service has provided.

.. only:: Open_edX

  The rules for proctoring exams vary according to the proctoring service that
  you or your organization has chosen. However, the :ref:`online proctoring
  rules <CA Online Proctoring Rules>` that this guide lists are common to many
  proctoring services.

.. note::
  The course grace period setting does not apply to proctored exams. For more
  information about the grace period setting, see :ref:`Set the Grace Period`.

You can also provide custom rules for a particular exam. For example, you might
allow learners to use a calculator, or to have one sheet of blank paper. These
rules are visible to reviewers and learners at the start of each proctoring
exam.

To specify custom proctored exam rules, follow these steps.

.. only:: Partners

  .. note::

    Your additional rules must be clear, specific, and easy to understand so
    that reviewers do not incorrectly review a learner’s exam. Use simple
    sentences and words for a global English speaking audience.

#. In Studio, open your course outline and select the subsection for the exam.

#. Select the **Configure** icon to open the **Settings** dialog box.

#. Select the **Advanced** tab, and then locate the **Set as a Special Exam**
   section.

#. In the **Review Rules** field, enter any additional rules. For example, you
   might enter the following rule.

   ``Allow one blank sheet of paper and a pencil or pen. Allow a hand-held
   calculator on the desk.``

#. Select **Save**.



.. _Allow Opting Out of Proctored Exams:

***************************************************
Allow Opting Out of Proctored Exams
***************************************************

.. only:: Partners

  When a proctored exam opens, by default, verified learners are required to take
  the exam as a proctored exam.

  If you want to allow Verified or Master's learners the option to take proctored exams
  without proctoring, please contact your edX partner manager to enable this option.

.. only:: Open_edX

  When a proctored exam opens, by default, learners are required to take the exam
  as a proctored exam. If you want to allow learners to take proctored exams without
  proctoring, you can change a setting on the **Proctored Exam Settings** page
  in Studio.

.. note::
   If a learner opts to take an exam without proctoring, the exam will not be 
   timed either. In effect, learners who opt out of proctoring will have 
   unlimited time to complete the exam and could return to problem sets at 
   any time. You can reduce the ability to view the exam by selecting a due 
   date for the exam.

.. only:: Open_edX

    To enable the option for learners to opt out of proctored exams for a course,
    follow these steps.

    #. In Studio, select **Settings**, then select **Proctored Exam Settings**.

    #. Locate the **Allow Opting Out of Proctored Exams** policy key. The default
       value is ``No``, which requires Verified and Master's learners to take
       proctored exams with proctoring.

    #. Change the value of the setting to ``Yes``.

    #. Select **Submit**.
