###################################
June 10, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of June 10,
2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of changes.

.. _key introspection API:

***************************************
The New Key Introspection API
***************************************

This release implements a change in the edX Platform software architecture. The
Key Introspection API is now used to uniquely identify Xblocks, the building
blocks for edX courses. This change simplifies the way that the application
identifies the course content internally. This change does not affect how you
author content.

In edX Studio, URL formats have changed for all courses. If you previously bookmarked a page in Studio, that bookmark will no longer work. You must update the URL. 

Following is a sample of this format change:

* Old URL: https://studio.edx.org/course/OrganizationX.Econ101.2014_T1/branch/draft/block/2014_T1

* New URL: https://studio.edx.org/course/slashes:OrganizationX+Econ101+2014_T1
  
This change does not affect student-visible URLs.

In the edX LMS, the only change is that to reset attempts or rescore student
responses in the **Student Admin** tab on the Instructor Dashboard, you must now
specify the complete location identifier of the problem. The Student Grades and
Grading section is updated with this revised requirement.

For additional technical detail about this architectural change and the opportunities it creates, see Opaque Keys on the GitHub wiki.

***************************************
edX Learning Management System
***************************************
   
* A problem with the **Register** button on edX Edge is fixed. If you are not
  logged in to edX Edge, you are redirected to the login page, from which new
  users can register.
  
* If a student's browser does not support HTML5 videos, and the course video is
  only available in HTML5, the following error message is now displayed to the
  student:  This browser cannot play .mp4, .ogg, or .webm files. Try using a
  different browser, such as Google Chrome. (BLD-638)

* Video transcripts are now displayed correctly on iPads. (BLD-1033)
  
===========================
Accessibility Improvements
===========================

* Drag and drop problems are updated to improve accessibility for screen
  readers:
  
  * User interface elements that receive focus now have a visual focus
    indicated. (LMS-1940)
  
  * Each user interface element now exposes its name, state, role, and value to
    assistive technologies. (LMS-1904)

  * The target image now has an alt attribute. (LMS-1699)

