
EdX has just completed an upgrade from Django 1.4 to Django 1.8.

===================
Django 1.8 Upgrade
===================

This upgrade includes the following changes as well as several additional
changes. For more information, see the `Django 1.8 Upgrade Release Notes`_ page
on the edX wiki or the `Django 1.8 pull request`_ in GitHub.

Transactions
*********************

* For Django 1.8, edX recommends that you use the ``transaction.atomic``
  decorator to start transactions for the code. For more information, see the
  `Database Transactions`_ page on the `Django website`_.

* The ``commit_on_success`` decorator is no longer available. You can use the
  new ``outer_atomic`` decorator instead.

* To avoid exceptions when you create models, edX recommends that you use the
  following pattern.

    ::

     if need_to_create_model:
        try:
            with transaction.atomic():
                MyFancyModel.create(**kwargs)
        except IntegrityError:
            # Model has already been created.
            log.warning("Something...")

Pip
****

* The ``egg_name`` value in each GitHub-based ``requirements.txt`` line must
  match the ``name`` value in the ``setup.py`` file of the repository.

* To avoid errors, you must always specify a version number in a URL-based
  requirements file line.

* New dependencies should use the "editable" (``-e``) prefix only when necessary.


Model Migrations
*********************

* All Django Python South schema migrations have been incorporated into each
  initial "0001" Django schema migration.

* Data migrations that seed data are now idempotent. All other data migrations
  have been discarded.

Model Meta Classes
*********************

* The ``app_label`` attribute has been added to several different models. For
  more information, see `app_label`_ on the `Django website`_.

More Information
*********************

To view the release notes for Django versions 1.5—1.8, see the following
resources.

* `Django 1.5`_
* `Django 1.6`_
* `Django 1.7`_
* `Django 1.8`_
