.. _Running_discussions:


############################
Running Course Discussions
############################

On an ongoing basis, the members of your :ref:`discussion
team<Assigning_discussion_roles>` run the course discussion by adding posts
and responses, marking answers as correct, and guiding learner messages into
pertinent threads. The information and suggested techniques in this section
can help you to make discussions in your course successful.

For information about moderating discussions, see
:ref:`Moderating_discussions` and :ref:`Guidance for Discussion Moderators`.

.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1

.. _Elements of discussions:

******************************************
Understanding the Elements of a Discussion
******************************************

Learners and the course team use course discussions to share ideas, exchange
views, consider different viewpoints, and ask questions. In course discussions
there are three hierarchical levels of interaction.

* A post is the first level of interaction. A post opens a new subject. Posts
  can be made as questions, to solicit a concrete answer, or as discussions,
  to start a conversation. When participants add a post, they must choose an
  existing topic to associate it with, and decide whether to add it as a
  **Question** or as a **Discussion**.

* A response is the second level of interaction. A response is a reply made
  directly to a post to provide a solution or continue the conversation.

* A comment is the third level of interaction. A comment is often a
  clarification or side note made to a specific response, rather than to the
  post as a whole.

The dialog created by a post, its responses, and the comments on those
responses is sometimes called a thread. Discussion threads are saved as part
of the course history.

.. only:: Partners

 For information about participating in discussions, see the
 :ref:`learners:Course Discussions Index` section in the *EdX Learner's Guide*.
 Consider referring learners in your courses to that section, which describes
 the structure and features of edX course discussions, and provides useful
 information to help learners make the most of their participation in course
 discussions.

.. only:: Open_edX

 For information about participating in discussions, see the
 :ref:`openlearners:Course Discussions Index` section in the *Open edX
 Learner's Guide*. Consider referring learners in your courses to that section,
 which describes the structure and features of course discussions, and provides
 useful information to help learners make the most of their participation in
 course discussions.


************************************************
Using Naming Conventions for Discussion Topics
************************************************

To identify certain types of messages and make them easier to find, you can
define a set of standard tags to include in the subject of a post or in the
body of a response or comment. Examples follow.

* Use "[OFFICIAL]" at the start of announcements about course details or
  changes.

* Provide information about corrections in course assignments with a subject
  that begins "[CORRECTION]" or "[ERRORS]".

* Ask learners to use "[STAFF]" in the subject of each post that needs the
  attention of a course team member.

Both the discussion team and your learners can use tags like these to search
the discussions more effectively.

When a post is created its type must be selected: either "question" or
"discussion". Members of the discussion team should be thoughtful when
selecting the type for their posts, and encourage learners to do the same. For
more information, see :ref:`Find Question Posts and Discussion Posts`.

.. future: changing the type of a post, maybe resequence or separate  conventions from post types

**************************
Seeding Discussion Topics
**************************

To help learners learn how to get the most out of course discussions, and find
the best discussion topic to use for their questions and conversations, you can
seed discussion topics in course-wide discussion topics before the course
starts.

Some examples follow.

* In the "General" topic (which is included in every course by default), add an
  [INTRO] post to initiate a thread for learner and course team introductions.

* For each course-wide discussion topic that you create, add an initial post
  to describe the way you intend that discussion to be used. In addition to
  providing guidance, these initial messages can act as models for learners to
  follow when they create their own posts.

EdX strongly recommends that you do not create seed posts in content-specific
discussion topics before the course starts or before the containing unit is
released. The category and subcategory names for content-specific discussion
topics are subject to the release visibility of their containing unit, and are
not visible until the unit is released. For more details, see :ref:`Visibility
of Discussion Topics`.


*******************************
Minimizing Thread Proliferation
*******************************

To encourage longer, threaded discussions rather than many similar, separate
posts, the discussion team can use the following techniques. However, be aware
that very long threads (with more than 200 responses and comments) can be
difficult to read, and might result in an unsatisfactory experience in the
discussion.

.. note:: You can only pin or close posts and mark questions as answered when
   you work in a web browser. You cannot complete these activities when you
   work in the edX mobile app.

* Pin posts. Pinning a post makes it appear at the top of the list of posts in
  the discussion navigation pane on the **Discussion** page. As a result, it is
  more likely that learners will see and respond to pinned posts. You can write
  your own post and then pin it, or pin a post by any author. Select the "More"
  icon and then **Pin**.

  .. image:: ../../../shared/images/Discussion_Pin.png
   :alt: The pin icon for discussion posts.

* Mark responses as answered or endorsed. Depending on whether a post is a
  question or a discussion, you use the same option to mark a response either
  as the answer to the posted question, or to endorse a response. Marking a
  question as answered makes it easier for learners to find answers to already
  asked questions, rather than ask the same question again. Endorsing a
  response confirms that it adds value to a discussion.

  To mark a response as answered or endorsed, select the "check mark" icon.
  You cannot mark your own responses as answers or as endorsed.

  .. image:: ../../../shared/images/Discussion_MarkAsAnswer.png
   :alt: The "check mark" icon for marking a response as the correct answer
         to a question.

* Vote for posts or responses. Learners can sort discussions by posts with the
  most votes, so posts and responses with many votes are more likely to be
  read and responded to. Select the "plus" icon for the response. You cannot
  vote for your own posts.

  .. image:: ../../../shared/images/Discussion_vote.png
   :alt: The "plus" icon for voting for discussion posts.

* Close posts. You can respond to a redundant post by (optionally) pasting in
  a link to the post that you prefer learners to contribute to, and prevent
  further interaction by closing the post. Select the "More" icon and then
  **Close**.

* Provide post/response/comment guidelines. In a pinned course-wide topic, you
  can provide learners with guidelines for participating in discussions,
  including when to start a new thread by adding a post instead of responding to
  an existing post, or commenting on a response.


.. _Close_discussions:

********************
Closing Discussions
********************

You can close the discussions for your course so that learners cannot add
messages to topics. Course discussions can be closed temporarily, such as
during an exam period, or permanently, such as when a course ends.

.. note:: When you close discussions, make sure you communicate with learners in
   your course to let them know why they cannot contribute to discussions, and
   the dates that discussions are affected. You can post a course update to the
   **Course** page as well as add a pinned information post to a course-wide
   discussion topic.

When you close the discussions for a course, all discussion topics in course
units and all course-wide topics are affected.

* Existing discussion contributions remain viewable.

* Learners cannot add posts, respond to posts, or comment on responses.
  However, learners can continue to vote on existing threads, follow threads,
  or report messages for misuse.

* Course team members who have any of the Staff, Admin, Discussion Admin,
  Discussion Moderator, Community TA, or Group Community TA roles are not
  affected when you close the discussions for a course. Users with these roles
  can continue to add to discussions.


============================================
Specify When Discussions Are Closed
============================================

.. note:: You can only close discussions when you work in a web browser. You
   cannot close discussions when you work in an edX mobile app.

To define when discussions are closed to new contributions and when they
reopen, follow these steps.

#. Open your course in Studio.

#. Select **Settings**, and then select **Advanced Settings**.

#. Locate the **Discussion Blackout Dates** field.

#. If the **Discussion Blackout Dates** field is empty, place your cursor
   between the brackets ``([ ])``.

   If the field already contains one or more blackout dates, place your cursor
   before the final bracket ``(])``.

#. Enter a pair of start and end dates for the time period during which you want
   discussions to be closed, in the following format.

   ``["YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM", "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM"]``

   .. note:: To close the course discussions permanently, specify an end date
     and time far in the future.

   * Within each date-time value, separate the date from the time with an
     uppercase letter "T".

   * Enclose each date-time value in double quotation marks.

   * Separate the start date-time from end date-time with a comma and a space.

   * Enclose each pair of start and end dates in square brackets.

   For example, to close course discussions temporarily for a final exam period
   from July 22, 2017 to July 25, 2017, you enter this pair of start and end
   dates.

   ``["2017-07-22T08:00", "2017-07-25T18:00"]``

   To close course discussions permanently on August 9, 2017 after the
   temporary exam period closure, you add an additional pair of start and end
   dates.

   ``["2017-07-22T08:00", "2017-07-25T18:00"], ["2017-08-09T00:00", "2099-08-09T00:00"]``

   You enter these values between an additional pair of square brackets which
   are supplied for you in Studio.

#. Select **Save Changes**.

   Studio checks the syntax of your entry and reformats your entry to add line
   feeds and indentation. A message lets you know whether your changes were
   saved successfully.

For examples of email messages that you can send to let learners know when the
course discussions are closed (or open), see :ref:`Example Messages to
Students`.


``["YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM", "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM"]``

.. note:: The dates and times that you enter are in Coordinated Universal
   Time (UTC), not in your local time zone. You might want to verify that you
   have specified the times that you intend by using a time zone converter.



