en_us/install_operations/source/configuration/deprecated_add_course_talk_widget.rst, before:

.. _Add CourseTalk (Deprecated):

################################################
DEPRECATED: This Is Unavailable in Lilac onwards
################################################

#############################################
Adding the CourseTalk Widget
#############################################

This topic describes how to add `CourseTalk`_ widgets to your instance of Open
edX. When you add the CourseTalk widget, it is visible for all courses.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

*********
Overview
*********

The CourseTalk widget allows learners to write reviews of your course and see
reviews that other learners have written. Learners can write reviews on the
course **Course** page, and the reviews are visible both in the course, and on
the course **About** page. Only learners who are enrolled in the course can
leave reviews of a course.

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/course_reviews.png
 :width: 250
 :alt: Examples of course reviews on a course's About page.

*********************************************
Add the CourseTalk Widget
*********************************************

To add the CourseTalk widget, follow these steps.

#. Sign in to the Django administration console for your base URL. For example,
   go to ``http://{your_URL}/admin``.
#. In the navigation pane, locate **Coursetalk**, and then select **Course talk
   widget configurations**.
#. On the **Select course talk widget configuration to change** page, select
   **Add course talk widget configuration**.
#. On the  **Add course talk widget configuration** page, select the
   **Enabled** check box, enter a value in the **Platform key** field, and then
   select **Save**.

   .. note::
    You can use any text that you want as your platform key. EdX recommends
    that you use your domain name, or part of your domain name.

#. In the LMS, open the **Course** page for any of your Open edX courses. Verify that the **Reviews** link in the sidebar opens the CourseTalk widget.
#. Sign out of your instance of Open edX and view the About page for any
   course.
#. In the right pane, verify that the CourseTalk widget appears below the
   course information panel.

.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst

Commit message:

docs: add config doc to enable returning extended profile metadata through the User API
[APER-2285]

This PR adds documentation around configuration of the extended profile feature of the User API. The User API of edx-platform allows the storage of additional metadata in a user's profile instance without needing to extend the underlying model. However, this data won't be returned unless the Open edX system is configured to return the data. This feature has existed for some time but I couldn't find any documentation no how to configure it.

en_us/install_operations/source/configuration/deprecated_add_course_talk_widget.rst, after:

.. _Add CourseTalk (Deprecated):

#############################################
Adding the CourseTalk Widget
#############################################

This topic describes how to add `CourseTalk`_ widgets to your instance of Open
edX. When you add the CourseTalk widget, it is visible for all courses.

.. Note::

   This feature has been deprecated and is unavailable in Lilac and onwards.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

*********
Overview
*********

The CourseTalk widget allows learners to write reviews of your course and see
reviews that other learners have written. Learners can write reviews on the
course **Course** page, and the reviews are visible both in the course, and on
the course **About** page. Only learners who are enrolled in the course can
leave reviews of a course.

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/course_reviews.png
 :width: 250
 :alt: Examples of course reviews on a course's About page.

*********************************************
Add the CourseTalk Widget
*********************************************

To add the CourseTalk widget, follow these steps.

#. Sign in to the Django administration console for your base URL. For example,
   go to ``http://{your_URL}/admin``.
#. In the navigation pane, locate **Coursetalk**, and then select **Course talk
   widget configurations**.
#. On the **Select course talk widget configuration to change** page, select
   **Add course talk widget configuration**.
#. On the  **Add course talk widget configuration** page, select the
   **Enabled** check box, enter a value in the **Platform key** field, and then
   select **Save**.

   .. note::
    You can use any text that you want as your platform key. EdX recommends
    that you use your domain name, or part of your domain name.

#. In the LMS, open the **Course** page for any of your Open edX courses. Verify that the **Reviews** link in the sidebar opens the CourseTalk widget.
#. Sign out of your instance of Open edX and view the About page for any
   course.
#. In the right pane, verify that the CourseTalk widget appears below the
   course information panel.

.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst
