
============================
Packaging Change for Dogwood
============================

A patch to Open edX Dogwood was released on 9 March 2016. This patch
only corrected a problem in the packaging of the release. If you have already
installed Dogwood, there is no need to reinstall it.

=============================
CourseTalk for Course Reviews
=============================

Installations running the latest version of Open edX can now add the CourseTalk
widget to their instances of Open edX. The CourseTalk widget allows learners to
post course ratings and reviews that then appear on the course's **About**
page. When you add the CourseTalk widget to an Open edX instance, the widget is
enabled for every course on that instance.

==============================
Updates to E-Commerce Checkout
==============================

For installations running the latest version of Open edX, this release
includes updates to the user interface on the **Checkout** page that is
presented by the the edX e-commerce service. The functionality of this page
has not changed, and learners can continue to check out using their credit
cards or PayPal.

For more information about the edX e-commerce service, see
:ref:`installation:Adding ECommerce to Open edX` in the
*Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform* guide.

====================
Other Changes
====================

Previously, the course **About** page included an unnecessary heading labeled
**overview**. This release removes the **overview** heading. (OSPR-1146)
