
* `Oppia`_ explorations are short, interactive tutorials that encourage
  exploration and experiential learning. This release includes the new Oppia
  exploration tool, which you can use to embed Oppia explorations in your
  courses. For more information about how you enable this tool and add Oppia
  explorations, see the following documentation.

  * EdX Partners: :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Oppia Exploration Tool`.

  * Open edX Users: :ref:`opencoursestaff:Oppia Exploration Tool`.
    
  On Open edX instances, you must install the `Oppia XBlock`_ before you can
  use Oppia explorations in courses.

* This release includes several updates to web certificates.
  
  * Course teams can now override the course number as well as the course name
    on the certificate. (SOL-1247) 

  * Both the course number and the override course number are displayed in the
    certificate set up page in Studio. (SOL-1247)

  * There are now no character limits on the name and title fields of
    certificate signatories. (SOL-1225)

    For information on web certificates, see the following documentation.

    * EdX Partners: :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Setting Up Course Certificates`.

    * Open edX Users: :ref:`opencoursestaff:Setting Up Course Certificates`.

* LTI components consume remote learning tools and present them in a course.
  With this release, LTI components use full screen mode to present remote
  content that is configured for full screen viewing.

  .. note:: To ensure that content shown by the LTI component is accessible,  
   verify that the remote system providing the content has implemented full
   screen mode with accessible controls that allow learners to enter and exit
   full screen mode.
