en_us/xblock-tutorial/source/reusable/clone_sdk.rst, before:

********************************************
Clone the XBlock Software Development Kit
********************************************

.. include:: ../reusable/sdk_intro.rst

After you :ref:`create and activate the virtual environment <Create and
Activate the Virtual Environment>`, you clone the `XBlock SDK`_ and install its
requirements. To do this, complete the following steps at a command prompt.

#. In the ``xblock_development`` directory, run the following command to clone
   the XBlock SDK repository from GitHub.

   .. code-block:: bash

      (venv) $ git clone https://github.com/openedx/xblock-sdk.git

#. Run the following command to change to the ``xblock-sdk`` directory.

   .. code-block:: bash
  
      (venv) $ cd xblock-sdk

#. Run the following command to install the XBlock SDK requirements.

   .. code-block:: bash
  
      (venv) $ pip install -r requirements/base.txt

#. Run the following command to return to the ``xblock_development`` directory,
   where you will perform the rest of your work.

   .. code-block:: bash
  
      (venv) $ cd ..

Commit message:

fix: xblock-sdk setup instructions (#2101)
* chore: add documentation to xblock setup for running make install and mkdir var fixing #1714

---------

Co-authored-by: Feanil Patel <feanil@tcril.org>

en_us/xblock-tutorial/source/reusable/clone_sdk.rst, after:

********************************************
Clone the XBlock Software Development Kit
********************************************

.. include:: ../reusable/sdk_intro.rst

After you :ref:`create and activate the virtual environment <Create and
Activate the Virtual Environment>`, you clone the `XBlock SDK`_ and install its
requirements. To do this, complete the following steps at a command prompt.

#. In the ``xblock_development`` directory, run the following command to clone
   the XBlock SDK repository from GitHub.

   .. code-block:: bash

      (venv) $ git clone https://github.com/openedx/xblock-sdk.git

#. In the same directory, create an empty directory called `var`.

   .. code-block:: bash

      (venv) $ mkdir var

#. Run the following command to change to the ``xblock-sdk`` directory.

   .. code-block:: bash
  
      (venv) $ cd xblock-sdk

#. Run the following commands to install the XBlock SDK requirements.

   .. code-block:: bash
  
      (venv) $ make install

#. Run the following command to return to the ``xblock_development`` directory,
   where you will perform the rest of your work.

   .. code-block:: bash
  
      (venv) $ cd ..
