.. _Resources for Data Czars:

########################################
Resources for Data Czars and Researchers
########################################

This section provides a list of resources for data czars and researchers.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1

Data czars and researchers are encouraged to participate in the edX community
and make use of these resources.

******************************************
Finding and Sharing Tools and Scripts
******************************************

The `edx-tools wiki`_ on the GitHub web site hosts a community-contributed
library of scripts for working with edX data. It also provides links to
additional public tools, such as the data model standard and frameworks defined
by the `MOOCdb project`_ and the data analytics platform and course report
generator developed by the `MOOCczar project`_.

Data czars and research teams are welcome to add tools, scripts, and links to
this wiki.

*************************************
Using the edX Analytics Forums
*************************************

Data czars, researchers, and members of the global edX data and analytics
community can post and discuss questions in the public research forum by
joining the `openedx-analytics`_ Google group. Members of the community use
this group to share use cases and experiences, post general data processing
questions, ask for and share scripts, and begin broad conversations about
student engagement.

The edX `Partner Portal`_  also offers community forums, including a Research
and Analytics topic, for discussions among edX partners. To use the edX Partner
Portal, you must register and request verification as an edX partner.

.. important:: Do not post sensitive data to public forums.

Data czars who have questions that involve sensitive data, or that are
institution specific, can send the questions by email to data.support@edx.org
with a copy to your organization's edX partner manager.

*************************************
Finding and Sharing Research Papers
*************************************

Members of the community have published a number of research papers. The
following edX blog posts summarize research by Harvard and MIT and include
links to additional resources.

* `Harvard and MIT release working papers on open online courses`_ (2014)

* `Three Insights from the HarvardX and MITx Year Two Reports`_ (2015)

The edx.org web site includes a `Research & Pedagogy`_ page that edX updates
periodically with references to research papers and articles about research
topics. To share publications on this page, contact your edX partner manager.

**********************************************
Using the edX Insights Documentation and Code
**********************************************

The :ref:`insights:Using edX Insights` guide describes the metrics and
visualizations that Insights produces, gives examples of using contextual
course information to interpret and act on Insights data, and provides a
computation reference.

The code base for Insights is public, and can be found in several related
GitHub repositories. Tasks in edx-analytics-pipeline create the data for
edx-analytics-data-api, which is then surfaced in edx-analytics-dashboard.

You can post questions about working with the Insights code to the
openedx-analytics Google group.

.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst
.. _Harvard and MIT release working papers on open online courses: http://blog.edx.org/harvard-mit-release-working-papers-open
.. _Three Insights from the HarvardX and MITx Year Two Reports: http://blog.edx.org/three-insights-harvardx-mitx-year-two

