.. _Offering Differentiated Content:

#######################################################
Offering Different Content to Different Learner Groups
#######################################################

You can design your course so that some learners are given different content
than others, based on the group that they belong to. Learners can be grouped
either by :ref:`cohort<Cohort>`, or by the :ref:`enrollment
track<enrollment_track_g>` that learners join for your course.

This section provides information about offering differentiated content in
your course.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1


.. note:: You can also use experiment groups to compare the performance of
   groups of learners who are offered different content. For details, see
   :ref:`Overview of Content Experiments`.


**********************************************************************
Offering Different Content to Learners Based on Their Enrollment Track
**********************************************************************

If your course has more than one enrollment track, you can provide different
content to learners in each of the enrollment tracks.

For example, you might provide the same course content to all learners except
that for the midterm and final exams, learners who are in a non-certificate
track and learners who are in a certificate track are given different exams.

For information about creating differentiated content based on enrollment
track, see :ref:`Enrollment Track Specific Courseware Overview`.


**********************************************************************
Offering Different Content to Learners Based on Cohort
**********************************************************************

If you have enabled cohorts in your course, you can associate one or more
cohorts with a content group. You can then design your course so that particular
content is available only to learners in a specific content group.

For example, you might intend all learners in your course to have
substantially the same course experience, except that you want to show
learners who are either current students or alumni of your university a
special video in several sections. You already have your university's current
students in one cohort and alumni in another cohort. By associating both of
these cohorts with the same content group, and restricting access to the
special university-related video to only this content group, you can provide a
customized course experience.

For information about creating differentiated content using cohorts, see
:ref:`Cohorts Overview` and :ref:`Cohorted Courseware Overview`.

