.. _Grades:

############################
Learner Grades and Grading
############################

You can review information about how grading is configured for your course, and
access learner grades, at any time after you create the course. You can also
make adjustments to learner grading for a problem, for a single learner or all
learners. For information about the grading data that you can access and the
changes you can make, see the following topics.

.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1

To review learner answers to course problems, you can check the answer
submissions for a specific problem, either for a selected learner or for all
learners. You can also review answer distribution data for all of the problems.
See :ref:`Review_Answers`.

For open response assessments, you can generate an ORA data report that
provides details of each learner's response and of assessments that were
performed on each response. For details, see :ref:`Generate ORA Report`.

For information about how you establish a grading policy and work with the
Problem components in your course, see :ref:`Grading Index` or
:ref:`Working with Problem Components`.

.. _Review_grades:

********************************************************
Review How Grading Is Configured for Your Course
********************************************************

You can review the assignment types that are graded and their respective
weights in the LMS by selecting **Instructor** to access the instructor
dashboard.

You establish a grading policy for your course when you create it in Studio.
While the course is running, you can view an XML representation of the
assignment types in your course and how they are weighted to determine
learners' grades.

..  DOC-290: research this statement before including anything like it: Below the list of graded assignment types and their weights, each *public* subsection and unit that contains an assignment is listed.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download** > **Grading
   Configuration**.

   A list of the assignment types in your course displays. In this example,
   Homework is weighted as 0.3 (30%) of the grade.

   .. image:: ../../../shared/images/Grading_Configuration.png
     :alt: XML of course assignment types and weights for grading.

   In Studio, you define this information by selecting **Settings** and then
   **Grading**. For more information, see :ref:`Configure the Assignment
   Types`.

   .. image:: ../../../shared/images/Grading_Configuration_Studio.png
     :alt: Studio example of homework assignment type and grading weight.


.. important:: Any changes that you make to the course grading policy, to graded
   subsections, or to graded components after the course begins will affect
   learners' grades and their experience in the course as well as analysis of
   course data.

   EdX recommends that you announce any unavoidable grading related changes to
   learners by using, for example, updates on the **Course** page. You should
   also carefully track such changes for researchers.

.. _Access_grades:

****************************************************
Generate a Grade Report for All Learners in a Course
****************************************************

For any course, you can generate grades and then download a file with the
results for all learners in the course, including unenrolled learners.

When you initiate calculations to grade learner work, a process starts on the
edX servers. The complexity of your grading configuration and the number of
learners in your course affect how long this process takes. You can download a
report of the calculated grades in a comma-separated values (.csv) file when
the grading process is complete.

For courses with fewer than 200 learners enrolled, you also have the option to
review learner grades on the instructor dashboard. For more information, see
:ref:`gradebook`.

To generate and download the grade report for the learners in your course,
follow these steps.

.. important:: Because the grade report file contains confidential, personally
   identifiable data, be sure to follow your institution's data stewardship
   policies when you open or save this file.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download**.

#. To start the grading process, select **Generate Grade Report**.

   A status message indicates that the grading process is in progress. This
   process can take some time to complete, but you can navigate away from this
   page and do other work while it runs.

#. To check the progress of the grading process, reload the page in your
   browser and scroll down to the **Pending Tasks** section. The
   status of active tasks is shown in the table.

   When the report is complete, a linked .csv file name becomes available above
   the **Pending Tasks** section. File names are in the format
   ``{course_id}_grade_report_{datetime}.csv``. The most recently generated
   reports appear at the top of the list.

#. To open or save a grade report file, locate and select the link for the
   grade report you requested.

   You can open .csv files in a spreadsheet application to sort, graph, and
   compare data.

.. note:: To prevent the accidental distribution of learner data, you can
   download grade report files only by selecting the links on this page. Do not
   copy these links for reuse elsewhere, as they expire within 5 minutes. The
   links on this page also expire if the page is open for more than 5 minutes.
   If necessary, refresh the page to generate new links.

.. _Interpret the Grade Report:

=============================
Interpreting the Grade Report
=============================

A grade report for your course is a time-stamped .csv file that identifies each
learner by ID, email address, and username, and provides a snapshot of their
cumulative course scores.

Scores in the grade report are presented by assignment. There is a column for
every assignment that is included in your grading configuration: each
homework, lab, midterm, final, and any other assignment type you added to your
course.

.. note:: The grade report does not include information about individual
   problems within assignments, or include learner answer distributions. For a
   report that shows problem-level information, see :ref:`problem_report`.

The report indicates the enrollment track for each learner. For professional
and verified track learners it also shows whether they have verified their
identity. The report shows whether each learner is eligible to receive a
certificate (determined by whether he has earned a passing grade at the time
the report was requested), whether a certificate has been generated, and the
type of certificate earned.

If your course includes :ref:`cohorts<Cohorts Overview>`, :ref:`content
experiments<Overview of Content Experiments>`, or
:ref:`teams<CA_Teams_Overview>`, the grade report includes additional columns
indicating the name of the cohort, experiment group, or team that each learner
belongs to.

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/Grade-Report-with-enroll-status.png
  :alt: A course grade report, opened in Excel, showing the grades achieved by
        learners on several homework assignments and the midterm.

The grade report .csv file contains one row of data for each learner, and
columns that provide the following information.

* Learner identifiers, including an internal **Student ID**, **Email** address,
  and **Username**.

* The overall **Grade**, with the total score a learner has currently attained
  in the course. This value is expressed as a decimal: a learner with a grade
  of 0.65 has earned 65% of the credit in the course, and a learner with a
  grade of 1 has earned 100%.

* Each **{assignment type} {number}** defined in your grading configuration,
  with the score that the learner attained for that specific assignment. For
  example, column Homework 3 shows the scores for the third homework
  assignment. If the learner did not attempt the assignment, the value is "Not
  Attempted". If the assignment was not available for the learner, the value
  is "Not Available".

* An **{assignment type} (Avg)** with each learner's current average score for
  that assignment type: for example, "Homework (Avg)". This column is not
  included if a particular assignment type has only one assignment.

  This assignment type average takes both dropped assignments and the
  assignment weight into account. For example, if the course includes five
  homework assignments and the course grading policy allows one homework
  assignment with the lowest score to be dropped, the homework assignment
  average in this grade report is calculated over four homework assignments
  rather than five. This average is then multiplied by the assignment weight to
  calculate the assignment type average.

* If :ref:`cohorts<Cohorts Overview>` are used in the course, a **Cohort Name**
  column indicates the name of the cohort that each learner belongs to,
  including the default cohort. The column is empty for learners who are not
  yet assigned to a cohort.

* If :ref:`content experiments<Overview of Content Experiments>` are used in
  the course, an **Experiment Group** column indicates the name of the
  experiment group that each learner belongs to within a group configuration.
  The column heading includes the name of the group configuration. The column
  is empty for learners who are not assigned to an experiment group. If you
  have more than one experiment group configuration in your course, you see one
  column for each group configuration.

* If :ref:`teams<CA_Teams_Overview>` are enabled in the course, a **Team Name**
  column indicates the name of the team that each learner belongs to. The
  column is empty for learners who have not joined a team.

* The **Enrollment Track** column indicates whether each learner is enrolled in
  the course in the honor code, verified, or professional education track.

* The **Verification Status** column indicates whether learners who are
  enrolled in course tracks that require ID verification have successfully
  verified their identities to edX by submitting an official photo ID via
  webcam. The value in this column is "N/A" for learners enrolled in course
  tracks that do not require ID verification, such as "Audit".

  A value of "Not ID Verified" in this column indicates that the learner is
  enrolled in a course mode that requires ID verification, such as "Verified",
  but she has not attempted ID verification, or her ID verification has failed
  or expired. A value of "ID Verified" indicates that the learner is enrolled
  in a course mode that requires ID verification, and her ID verification is
  current and valid.

* The **Certificate Eligible** column indicates whether a learner is eligible
  for a certificate for your course. The value in this column is "Y" for
  learners who attained a passing grade before this report was requested, and
  for all whitelisted learners, regardless of grade attained. The value is "N"
  for learners who did not attain a passing grade and for those who live in
  embargoed countries.

* For learners who are eligible to receive a certificate, the **Certificate
  Delivered** column has a value of "Y" when the certificates for a course have
  been generated. The value is "N" for learners who are not eligible to
  receive a certificate.

* The **Certificate Type** column indicates the type of certificate that the
  learner is eligible for, such as "honor" or "verified". If a learner is not
  eligible for a certificate, or if the certificates for a course have not yet
  been generated, the value in this column is "N/A".

* The **Enrollment Status** column indicates whether the learner is currently
  enrolled or unenrolled in the course.

.. _problem_report:

************************************************************
Generate a Problem Grade Report for All Learners in a Course
************************************************************

For any course, you can calculate grades for problems and generate a report
that can be downloaded. The problem grade report for a course shows the number
of points that each learner has earned for each problem, and the number of
possible points for every problem in the course. In addition, the
report shows the final grade score for each learner.

To generate and download the problem grade report for all learners who have
ever enrolled in your course, follow these steps.

.. important:: Because the problem grade report file contains confidential,
   personally identifiable data, be sure to follow your institution's data
   stewardship policies when you open or save this file.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download**.

#. To start the problem grading process, select **Generate Problem Grade
   Report**.

   A status message indicates that the problem grading process is in progress.
   This process can take some time to complete, but you can navigate away from
   this page and do other work while it runs.

#. To check the progress of the problem grading process, reload the page in
   your browser and scroll down to the **Pending Tasks** section. The status of
   active tasks is shown in the table.

   When the report is complete, a linked .csv file name becomes available above
   the **Pending Tasks** section. File names are in the format
   ``{course_id}_problem_grade_report_{datetime}.csv``. The most recently
   generated reports appear at the top of the list.

#. To open or save a problem grade report file, locate and select the link for
   the problem grade report you requested.

   You can open .csv files in a spreadsheet application to sort, graph, and
   compare data.

.. note:: To prevent the accidental distribution of learner data, you can
   download problem grade report files only by selecting the links on this
   page. Do not copy these links for reuse elsewhere, as they expire within 5
   minutes. The links on this page also expire if the page is open for more
   than 5 minutes. If necessary, refresh the page to generate new links.

.. _Interpret the Problem Grade Report:

======================================
Interpreting the Problem Grade Report
======================================

A problem grade report for your course is a time-stamped .csv file that
identifies each learner by ID, email address, and username, and provides a
snapshot of earned scores compared with the possible scores for each problem.

The problem grade report includes two columns for every problem that is
included in your grading configuration. For each homework, lab, midterm, or
final exam problem, there is one column for earned points, and one column for
possible points. In addition, the report shows the final grade score for each
learner, expressed as a decimal.

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/Problem_Grade_Report_Example.png
  :alt: An example problem grade report shown in Excel, showing the decimal
    final grade for learners as well as the earned vs possible points that they
    each achieved on several quiz assignments. A column for a midterm is only
    partially visible.

The .csv file contains one row of data for each learner, and columns that
provide the following information.

* Learner identifiers, including an internal **Student ID**, **Email** address,
  and **Username**.

* The **Grade** column shows the total score that a learner has currently
  attained in the course. This value is expressed as a decimal: a learner with
  a grade of 0.65 has earned 65% of the credit in the course, and a learner
  with a grade of 1 has earned 100%.

* For each problem (identified by assignment, subsection, and problem name), a
  column showing the number of points actually earned by each learner. If the
  learner did not attempt the assignment, the value is "Not Attempted". If the
  assignment is not available to the learner, the value in this column is "Not
  Available".

* For each problem (identified by assignment, subsection, and problem name), a
  column showing the number of points that it is possible to earn for the
  problem. If the assignment is not available to the learner, the value in
  this column is "Not Available".

.. _gradebook:

*************************************
Review Learner Grades (Small Courses)
*************************************

For courses with enrollments of up to 200 learners, you can review a gradebook
on the instructor dashboard. To review grades for a small course, follow these
steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Student Admin**. For courses with
   fewer than 200 learners, this page includes a **View gradebook for
   enrolled learners** section.

#. Select **View Gradebook**. Grades are calculated and the gradebook displays.

   .. image:: ../../../shared/images/Student_Gradebook.png
     :alt: Course gradebook with rows for learners and columns for assignment
         types.

The gradebook includes the following features.

* You can select the username in each row to review that learner's **Course
  Progress** page. For more information, see :ref:`check_student_progress`.

* There is a column for each **{assignment type} {number}** defined in your
  grading configuration, with the scores that the learner attained for that
  specific assignment.

  The gradebook does not have a scroll bar, but it can be dragged: to see
  columns that are hidden at one side of the grade book, select the gradebook
  and then drag left or right to reveal those columns.

* For assignment types that include more than one assignment, an **{assignment
  type} Avg** column displays each learner's current average score for that
  assignment type, modified by the assignment weight.

* The **Total** column presents the total score that each learner has currently
  attained in the course. This value is expressed as a whole number: a learner
  with a grade of 65 has earned 65% of the credit in the course, and a learner
  with a grade of 100 has earned 100%.

* To filter the data that displays you can use the **Search students** option.
  This option is case-sensitive and limits the rows shown in the gradebook to
  usernames that match your entry.


.. _check_student_progress:

**********************************************
Check the Progress of a Specific Learner
**********************************************

To check a single learner's progress in your course, you can review the data
in the :ref:`grade report<Access_grades>` or :ref:`problem grade
report<problem_report>`, or review the learner's **Progress** page.

A learner's **Progress** page includes a chart that plots the score that the
learner has earned for each graded assignment and the total grade, as of the
current date. Below the chart, scores for every assignment by subsection,
including ungraded assignments, are listed.

Both in the chart on the **Progress** page and in the :ref:`problem grade
report<problem_report>`, learners' assignment scores are grouped by assignment
type rather than in the order that they occur in the course. In the bar chart
on the **Progress** page, the total score that a learner has earned for the
course appears after the individual assignment scores, while in the problem
grade report, the total score appears before the individual assignment scores.


.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1

=======================================
View a Specific Learner's Progress Page
=======================================

To view a specific learner's **Progress** page, you need their email
address or username. You can check the progress for learners who are either
enrolled in, or who have unenrolled from, the course.

Learners can view their own progress chart and assignment scores when they are
logged in to the course.

To view the **Progress** page for a specific learner, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Next to **View this course as**, select **Specific student**.

#. In the **Username or email** field that appears, enter the learner's
   username or email address, and then press the Enter key on your keyboard.

#. Select the **Progress** page.

   The **Progress** page for the learner displays a chart with the grade for
   each homework, lab, midterm, final, and any other assignment types in your
   course, and the total grade earned for the course to date.


.. _Understanding the Progress Page:

================================
Understanding the Progress Page
================================

The **Progress** page for each learner displays a chart that summarizes her
progress through the course, with entries for each graded assignment, the
average score by assignment type, the total percentage earned in the course so
far, and the percentage grade needed for each grade cutoff. This chart is
essentially a graphical representation of the data in the problem grade
report. However, the chart does not reflect any cohort or experiment group
assignments.

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/Student_Progress.png
 :alt: Progress page chart for a learner: includes a column graph with the
       score achieved for each assignment.

The chart's y-axis shows the range of grade percentages from 0 to 100%, and
includes labels for the grade ranges defined for the course. For example, if a
course is a pass/fail course with a grade of 60% required to pass, the y-axis
displays a label "Pass" at the 60% level. If a course has grade levels "A",
"B", and "C" defined at 90%, 70%, and 50% respectively, the y-axis displays
labels at each of those levels.

The learner's scores for each graded assignment in the course are listed along
the x-axis, with the height of each bar indicating the percentage score for
that assignment. Assignments are grouped by assignment type, rather than being
listed in order of occurrence in the course. A bar for the average of each
assignment type is included, as well a bar for the total cumulative grade that
the learner has earned to date in the course.

To learn more about a particular assignment, move the cursor onto the value in
the chart. A brief description displays. A dropped assignment is indicated in
the chart by an **x** above the horizontal axis.

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/Student_Progress_mouseover.png
 :alt: Progress page with a tooltip for the X that was graphed for the last
       homework assignment, which indicates that the lowest homework score
       is dropped.

Below the chart on the **Progress** page is a list of all the subsections in
the course, with the learner's scores for the problems in each subsection.
Point scores from graded sections are labelled as "Problem Scores", while
point scores from ungraded sections are called "Practice Scores".

.. image:: ../../../shared/images/Student_Progress_list.png
 :alt: Bottom portion of a Progress page for the same learner with the
       score achieved for each problem in the first course subsection.

.. note:: Learner scores on the **Progress** page are a snapshot of the scores
   that were calculated when learners submitted answers to the problems. It is
   possible that the scores displayed on the **Progress** page are different
   from scores that would be obtained if you recalculated them today, if
   changes were made to the problems.

   For example, if the course team changes a released problem's total possible
   points, learners who submitted answers to the problem before the change will
   have grades on the **Progress** page that do not reflect the problem's new
   number of total possible points. This asynchronicity will remain until
   either the course team rescores the changed problem, or until affected
   learners resubmit responses to the changed problem.


.. _Adjust_grades:

****************************************
Adjust Grades for One or All Learners
****************************************

If you :ref:`modify a problem or its settings<Modifying a Released Problem>`
after learners have attempted to answer it, we recommend that you rescore the
changed problem so that learners' grades are updated.

You can adjust an individual learner's score for a problem using either the
**Staff Debug Info** option in the course or on the **Student Admin** tab of
the instructor dashboard in the LMS. To adjust the scores for all enrolled
learners at once, you use the options on the **Student Admin** tab of the
instructor dashboard in the LMS. If you use the options in the instructor
dashboard, you need to :ref:`obtain the unique location identifier<find_URL>`
of the problem.

The following sections describe the various ways in which you can adjust
learners' scores when you cannot avoid making a correction or other change to
a problem.

.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1

.. _Override a Learners Score for a Problem:

==========================================
Override a Learner's Score for a Problem
==========================================

In some cases, you might want to change, or override, the score that Studio has
given a learner for a specific problem. For example, you might receive an email
message that explains extenuating circumstances for a learner. You can change
an individual learner's score for a problem using either the instructor
dashboard or the Staff Debug viewer for the problem.

Override a Learner's Score Using the Instructor Dashboard
************************************************************

To override a learner's score for a specific problem by using the instructor
dashboard, follow these steps.

#. Obtain the location identifier for the problem that you want to rescore.
   For more information, see :ref:`find_URL`.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Student Admin**.

#. Under **Adjust a learner's grade for a specific problem**, enter the
   learner's email address or username, and then enter the location of the
   problem in the course. For more information, see :ref:`find_URL`.

#. Under **Score Override**, enter the new score for the problem, and then
   select **Override Learner's Score**.

   .. note::
     Make sure that the new score is out of the weighted total points for the
     problem.

#. In the confirmation dialog box, select **OK** for each of the confirmation
   and status messages.

#. To view the results of the rescore process, select **Show Task Status**.

   A table displays the status of the override process.


Override a Learner's Score Using the Staff Debug Viewer
************************************************************

To override a learner's score for a specific problem by using the Staff Debug
viewer, follow these steps.

#. Obtain the username or email address of the learner whose score you want to
   change.
#. View the live version of your course.
#. Select **Course** and navigate to the component that contains the problem
   you want.
#. Display the problem, and then select **Staff Debug Info**. The Staff Debug
   viewer opens.
#. In the **Username** field, enter the learner’s email address or username.
#. In the **Score (for override only)** field, enter the correct score for the
   learner, and then select **Override Score**. A message indicates a
   successful adjustment.
#. To close the Staff Debug viewer, click on the browser page outside of the
   viewer.

.. _rescore:

==========================================
Rescore Learner Submissions for a Problem
==========================================

Each problem that you create for your course includes the definition of a
correct answer, and might also include a tolerance or acceptable alternatives.
If you make a change to the accepted answers for a problem, you can rescore any
learner responses that were already submitted.


.. note::
   You can only rescore problems that have a correct answer defined in edX
   Studio, including CAPA problems and drag and drop problems. This procedure
   cannot be used to rescore open response assessment (ORA) problems or
   problems that are scored by an external grader. For ORA problems, you can
   :ref:`override a learner assessment grade<Override a learner assessment
   grade>` in Studio.

   Additionally, errors might occur if you rescore a problem that has multiple
   response fields and you have completed any of the following actions.

   * You removed a response field.
   * You added a response field.
   * You reordered any of the response fields.


.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1


.. _rescore_only_improve:

Rescore an Individual Learner's Submission Only if the Score Improves
*********************************************************************

This method of rescoring updates a learner's score only if it improves with
the rescoring. If the score is unchanged or might be lower after the
rescoring, the learner's score is not updated.

To rescore a problem for a single learner and update the score only if it
improves, follow these steps.

#. Obtain the username or email address of the learner whose submission you
   are rescoring.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Course** and navigate to the component that contains the
   problem you want to rescore.

#. Display the problem, and then select **Staff Debug Info**. The Staff Debug
   viewer opens.

#. In the **Username** field, enter the learner's email address or username,
   and then select **Rescore Only If Score Improves**. A message indicates a
   successful adjustment.

#. To close the Staff Debug viewer, click on the browser page outside of the
   viewer.

.. note:: You can also rescore an individual's submission in the **Adjust a
   learner's grade for a specific problem** section on the **Student Admin**
   tab of the instructor dashboard. To do this, you need to obtain :ref:`the
   location ID<find_URL>` of the problem as well as the learner's username or
   email address.


.. _rescore_submission_individual:

Rescore an Individual Learner's Submission
******************************************

.. note:: Depending on the type of change you made to the problem, this method
   of rescoring might decrease the learner's score. To avoid negatively
   affecting learner scores, you can instead :ref:`rescore a learner's
   submission only if the score improves<rescore_only_improve>`.

To rescore an individual learner's submission, follow these steps.

#. Obtain the username or email address of the learner whose submission you
   are rescoring.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Course** and navigate to the component that contains the
   problem you want to rescore.

#. Display the problem, and then select **Staff Debug Info**. The Staff Debug
   viewer opens.

#. In the **Username** field, enter the learner's email address or username,
   and then select **Rescore Learner's Submission**. A message indicates a
   successful adjustment.

#. To close the Staff Debug viewer, click on the browser page outside of the
   viewer.

.. note:: You can also rescore an individual's submission in the **Adjust a
   learner's grade for a specific problem** section on the **Student Admin**
   tab of the instructor dashboard. To do this, you need to obtain :ref:`the
   location ID<find_URL>` of the problem as well as the learner's username or
   email address.


.. _rescore_all_learners_only_improve:

Rescore Submissions for All Learners Only if Scores Improve
***********************************************************

This method of rescoring updates learners' scores only if they improve with
the rescoring. Learners' scores that are unchanged or lower after the
rescoring are not updated.

To rescore a problem for all enrolled learners in your course, and update
scores only if they improve, follow these steps.

#. Obtain the location identifier for the problem that you want to rescore.
   For information, see :ref:`find_URL`.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Student Admin**.

#. In the **Adjust all enrolled learners' grades for a specific problem**
   section of the page, enter the location of the problem, and then select
   **Rescore Only If Scores Improve**.

#. In the confirmation dialog box, select **OK** for each of the confirmation
   and status messages.

   The rescoring process can take some time to complete for all enrolled
   learners. You can navigate away from this page and do other work while the
   process runs in the background.

#. To view the results of the rescore process, select **Show Task Status**.

   A table displays the status of the rescore process.


.. _rescore_submission_all_learners:

Rescore Submissions for All Learners
************************************

.. note:: Depending on the type of change you made to the problem, this method
   of rescoring might decrease learners' scores. To avoid negatively affecting
   learners' scores, you can instead :ref:`rescore learners' submissions only
   if scores improve<rescore_all_learners_only_improve>`.

To rescore a problem for all enrolled learners in your course, follow these
steps.

#. Obtain the location identifier for the problem that you want to rescore.
   For information, see :ref:`find_URL`.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Student Admin**.

#. In the **Adjust all enrolled learners' grades for a specific problem**
   section of the page, enter the location of the problem, and then select
   **Rescore All Learners' Submissions**.

#. In the confirmation dialog box, select **OK** for each of the confirmation
   and status messages.

   The rescoring process can take some time to complete for all enrolled
   learners. You can navigate away from this page and do other work while the
   process runs in the background.

#. To view the results of the rescore process, select **Show Task Status**.

   A table displays the status of the rescore process.


.. _reset_attempts:

=====================================
Reset Learner Attempts for a Problem
=====================================

When you create a problem, you can limit the number of times that a learner
can try to answer that problem correctly. If unexpected issues occur for a
problem, you can reset the value for one particular learner's attempts back to
zero so that the learner can begin work over again. If the unexpected behavior
affects all of the learners in your course, you can reset the number of
attempts for all learners to zero.

.. note:: You cannot use this method with open response assessment (ORA)
   problems. To allow a learner to start an ORA problem again and resubmit
   responses, you must :ref:`delete the learner's state<delete_state>`.

Reset Attempts for an Individual Learner
****************************************

To reset the number of attempts for a single learner, follow these steps.

#. Obtain the learner's username or email address.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Course** and navigate to the component that contains the
   problem you want to reset.

#. Display the problem, and then select **Staff Debug Info**. The Staff Debug
   viewer opens.

#. In the **Username** field, enter the learner's email address or username,
   and then select **Reset Learner's Attempts to Zero**. A message indicates a
   successful adjustment.

#. To close the Staff Debug viewer, click on the browser page outside of the
   viewer.

Reset Attempts for All Learners
*******************************

To reset the number of attempts that all enrolled learners have for a problem,
follow these steps.

#. Obtain the location identifier for the problem whose attempts you are
   resetting. For more information, see :ref:`find_URL`.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Student Admin**.

#. To reset the number of attempts for all enrolled learners, you work in the
   **Adjust all enrolled learners' grades for a specific problem** section of
   the page. Enter the unique problem location, and then select **Reset
   Attempts to Zero**.

#. A dialog opens to indicate that the reset process is in progress. Select
   **OK**.

   This process can take some time to complete. The process runs in the
   background, so you can navigate away from this page and do other work while
   it runs.

#. To view the results of the reset process, select **Show Task Status**.

   A table displays the status of the reset process for each learner or
   problem.

.. note:: You can use a similar procedure to reset problem attempts for a
 single learner. You work in the **Student-Specific Grade Adjustment** section
 of the page to enter both the learner's email address or username and the
 unique problem identifier, and then select **Reset Student Attempts**.

.. _delete_state:

=======================================
Delete a Learner's State for a Problem
=======================================

You can completely delete a learner's database history, or "state", for a
problem. You can only delete learner state for one learner at a time.

For example, you realize that a problem needs to be rewritten after only a few
of your learners have answered it. To resolve this situation, you rewrite the
problem and then delete learner state only for the affected learners so that
they can try again.

To delete a learner's entire history for a problem from the database, you need
that learner's username or email address.

.. important:: Learner state is deleted permanently by this process. This
   action cannot be undone.

   When you delete a learner's state for an open response assessment (ORA)
   problem, the learner will have to start the assignment from the beginning,
   including submitting responses and going through the required assessment
   steps.

You can use either the **Staff Debug Info** option or the instructor dashboard
to delete learner state.

To use the **Staff Debug Info** option, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Course** and navigate to the component that contains the
   problem.

#. Display the problem, and then select **Staff Debug Info**. The Staff Debug
   viewer opens.

#. In the **Username** field, enter the learner's email address or username,
   and then select **Delete Learner's State**. A message indicates a successful
   adjustment.

#. To close the Staff Debug viewer, click on the browser page outside of the
   viewer.

To use the instructor dashboard, you must first obtain the unique identifier of
the problem. See :ref:`find_URL`.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Student Admin**.

#. In the **Adjust a learner's grade for a specific problem** section of the
   page, enter both the learner's email address or username and the unique
   problem identifier, and then select **Delete Learner's State**.


.. _find_URL:

==================================================
Find the Unique Location Identifier for a Problem
==================================================

When you create each of the problems for a course, edX assigns a unique
location to it. To make grading adjustments for a problem, or to view data
about it, you need to specify the problem location.

Location identifiers for problems can be in one of these formats.

* ``location = block-v1:{org}+{course}+{run}+type@problem+block@{id}``, for
  example, ``location = block-v1:edX+BlendedX+1T2015+type@problem+block@72e0f73cdf5c4d648ebec0022854f18b``

* ``location = i4x://{org}/{course}/problem/{id}``, for example,
  ``location = i4x://edX/edX101/problem/680cc746e8ee473490841334f0235635``

Courses created since Fall 2014 typically have usage IDs in the first format,
while older courses have usage IDs in the second format.

To find the unique location identifier for a problem, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Course**, and then navigate to the unit that contains the
   problem.

#. Display the problem, and find the **Submission History** and **Staff Debug
   Info** options that appear below it.

#. Select **Staff Debug Info**. Information about the problem appears,
   including its **location**.

#. To copy the location of the problem, select the entire value after
   ``location =``, right click, and then select **Copy**.

To close the Staff Debug viewer, click on the browser page outside of the
viewer.
