
================
Profiles 
================

Learners and course team members can now introduce themselves to the edX
community through personal profiles. A profile can include an image, a personal
introduction, and other information. Learners can access each others' profiles
from within course discussions.

Learners and course team members can also use the new **Account Settings** page
to update account information, such as the account email address and password,
and demographic information, such as level of education and country or region.

==========================
Video Start and Stop Times
==========================

If course teams define either one or both of the **Video Start Time** and
**Video Stop Time** values, learners no longer have the option to override
those values and watch the entire video file. Only the segment of the video
file that is delimited by your specified start and stop times plays.

.. note:: The **Video Start Time** and **Video Stop Time** values do not apply
   to videos that are downloaded or viewed using the native mobile app.
   Learners who use the mobile app can play the entire video file.

============================
Accessibility Improvements 
============================

In addition to some minor changes to enhance accessibility in the LMS and
Studio, the following changes were made.

* HTML ``iframe`` elements now show meaningful title attributes that describe
  the content embedded in the IFrame. (TNL-1675)

* The main blue colors used throughout the LMS user interface and on `edx.org`_
  were changed to meet WCAG AA guidelines for contrast. (UX-1810)
