
=============================================
Introducing edX as an LTI Tool Provider
=============================================

In a pilot implementation, the edX Edge site is now being used as a learning
tool interoperability (LTI) tool provider. Course teams use this feature to
present content from edX courses, including advanced problem types and videos,
in their on-campus learning management systems. The "edX as an LTI Tool
Provider" feature can make it easier for you to teach with, and students to
learn from, the best materials available, regardless of platform.

.. note:: Support for this feature is currently provisional. EdX is working 
 with our early adopter partners to support further testing of this feature
 with additional learning management systems.

For more information, see :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Using edX as an LTI Tool
Provider` in the *Building and Running an edX Course* guide.


=========
Bug Fixes
=========

* In courses containing in-course reverification steps, learners on the
  verified track who submitted photo IDs for an in-course reverification
  checkpoint were incorrectly shown a message indicating that they had missed
  the re-verification deadline. This issue has been resolved. Learners can
  continue to check whether they satisfied the verification or credit
  requirement on their **Progress** pages. A green checkmark appears next to
  the verification requirement when submitted photos are approved by the
  verification service. The verification process can take 24 hours or more.
  (ECOM-2225)

* In for-credit courses, credit-eligible assessments were listed on the
  **Progress** page in the order that they were created. They are now sorted by
  assessment start date. (ECOM-2118)

* When learners select **Show Answer** for dropdown problems, the positioning
  of the correct answer has been fixed so that it now displays in the same way
  as it does for other problem types such as numerical input. (OSPR-794)

* When learners select **Show Answer** for math expression input problems, the
  answer display and the loading animation have been improved. (OSPR-808)


===========================
Accessibility Improvements
===========================

Several accessibility-related changes were made in the LMS, Dashboard, and
courseware templates to improve readability and navigability. (AC-155)

