
=================================
Enhancements to the Grade Report
=================================

The grade report now includes new columns with certificate status and
enrollment track information. When course teams generate the grade report from
the Instructor Dashboard, they can see the following additional information
for each learner.
 
* Enrollment track: honor, verified, or professional education.
* Verification status, to identify learners in the verified or professional
  track who have completed identity verification with edX.
* Certificate eligibility status, to identify learners who have earned the
  passing grade in the course at the time of the grade report generation.
* Certificate delivery status, to identify learners who have received their
  certificates.
* The type of certificate, for learners who are eligible to receive a
  certificate.

=================================
Accessibility Improvements
=================================

This release includes accessibility improvements for learners who use a
keyboard or screen reader to access the LMS.

* The **My Profile** page now offers improved accessibility for learners who
  want to add or change their profile images. (TNL-2051)

* Several problems with numerical input problem types are now corrected.
  (TNL-1677)

  * The current status of the problem is now conveyed to screen reader
    users properly.
  * The workflow for checking how ASCII math is converted to MathML or MathJax
    format has been streamlined for screen reader users.
  * Nonessential information is no longer included in ``aria-live`` regions,
    which improves the experience for screen reader users.

* Improvements to the accessibility of discussion posts to screen reader users
  are included in this release. (AC-102)
