en_us/data/source/access/credentials.rst, before:

.. _Getting_Credentials_Data_Czar:

####################################################
Keys and Credentials for Data Transfers
####################################################

EdX transfers course data to the data czars at our partner institutions in
regularly generated data packages. Data packages can be accessed only by the
data czar at each partner institution. This section describes how data czars
can set up and use the credentials and public/private key pairs they need so
that they can download and decrypt the edX data package.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 2

*************************************
Overview of Key Setup and Exchange
*************************************

The data czar who is selected at each institution sets up keys for securely
transferring files from edX to the partner institution. Meanwhile, the
Analytics team at edX sets up credentials so that the data czar can log in to
the site where data packages are stored.

 .. image:: ../Images/Data_Czar_Initialization.png
  :alt: Flowchart of data czar creating public and private keys and sending the
      public key to edX, and of edX creating data storage credentials and
      encrypting those credentials with the public key before sending them to
      the data czar.

After these steps for setting up credentials are complete, the data czar can
download data packages on an ongoing basis.

****************************************************************
Data Czar: Create Keys for Encryption and Decryption
****************************************************************

To ensure the security of data packages, edX encrypts all files before making
them available to a partner institution. As a result, when you receive a data
package (or other files) from edX, you must decrypt the files that it contains
before you use them.

The cryptographic processes of encrypting and decrypting data files require
that you create a pair of keys: the public key in the pair, which you send to
the edX Analytics team, is used to encrypt data. You use your corresponding
private key to decrypt any files that have been encrypted with that public key.

To create the keys needed for this encryption and decryption process, you use
GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG or GPG). Essentially, you install a cryptographic
application on your local computer and then supply your email address and a
secret passphrase (a password).

.. important::

 * The email address that you supply when you create your keys must be your
   official email address at your edX partner institution.

 * After you specify the passphrase, be sure to take any steps necessary to
   assure that you can use it in the future. To minimize security risks, GPG
   does not provide a mechanism for supplying you with a reminder hint.

 * Do not reveal your passphrase to anyone else.

The result is the public key that you send to edX to use in encrypting data
files for your institution, and the private key which you keep secret and use
to decrypt the encrypted files that you receive. Creating these keys is a one-
time process that you coordinate with your edX partner manager. Instructions
for creating the keys on Windows or Macintosh follow.

For more information about GPG encryption and creating key pairs, see the
`Gpg4win Compendium`_.


=====================
Create Keys: Windows
=====================

#. Go to the Gpg4win_ website and download the most recent version of Gpg4win.

#. Install Gpg4win and then open the Kleopatra Gpg4win application. A wizard
   presents a series of dialog boxes to collect information from you and
   generate your public key (called a certificate in Kleopatra).

   a. When you are prompted to specify the type of key pair you want, select
      **Create personal OpenPGP key pair**.

   b.  When you are prompted for your email address, be sure to enter *your
       official university or institution email address*. EdX cannot use
       public keys that are based on personal or other non-official email
       addresses to encrypt data.

   c. When you are prompted for a passphrase, enter a strong passphrase. Be
      sure to select a passphrase that you can remember, or use a secure method
      of retaining it for reuse in the future: you use this passphrase when you
      decrypt your data packages.

3. When Kleopatra presents the **Key Pair Successfully Created** dialog box,
   select **Send Certificate by EMail** to send the public key (and only the
   public key) to your edX partner manager.

#. Optionally, select **Make a Backup Copy of Your Key Pair** to store both of
   the keys on a removable data storage device.

.. important:: Do not reveal your passphrase, or share your private key, with
 anyone else. If you need another person to be able to transfer and decrypt
 files, work with edX to set her or him up as an additional data czar. Data
 czars must create and use their own passphrases.

=======================
Create Keys: Macintosh
=======================

#. Go to the `GPG Tools`_ website. Scroll down to the **GPG Suite** section of
   the page and select **Download GPG Suite**.

#. When the download is complete, select the .dmg file to begin the
   installation.

   When installation is complete, GPG Keychain Access opens a web page with
   `First Steps`_ and a dialog box.

#. Enter your name and email address. Be sure to enter *your official
   university or institution email address*. EdX cannot use public keys that
   are based on personal or other non-official email addresses to encrypt data.

#. Select **Generate key**. A dialog box opens to prompt you for a passphrase.

#. Enter a strong passphrase. Be sure to select a passphrase that you can
   remember, or use a secure method of retaining it for reuse in the future:
   you use this passphrase when you decrypt your data packages.

#. To send only your public key to your edX partner manager, select the key and
   then select **Export**. A dialog box opens.

#. Specify a file name and location to save the file. Make sure that **Format**
   is set to ASCII and that **Allow secret key export** is not selected.

   When you select **Save**, only the public key is saved in the resulting
   ``.asc`` file. Do not share your private key with edX or any third party.

#. Compose an email message to your edX partner manager. Attach the .asc
   file that you saved in the previous step to the message, then send the
   message.

****************************************************************
EdX: Deliver Credentials for Accessing Data Storage
****************************************************************

The data packages that edX prepares for each partner organization are uploaded
to the Amazon Web Service (AWS) Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). The edX
Analytics team creates an individual account to access this storage service for
each data czar. The credentials for accessing this account are called an Access
Key and a Secret Key.

After edX creates these access credentials for you, edX uses the public
encryption key that you sent your edX partner manager to encrypt the
credentials into a ``credentials.csv.gpg`` file. EdX then sends the file to you
as an email attachment.

The **credentials.csv.gpg** file is likely to be the first file that you
decrypt with your private GPG key. You use the same process to decrypt the data
package files that you retrieve from Amazon S3. See `Decrypt an Encrypted
File`_.

 .. image:: ../Images/Access_AmazonS3.png
  :alt: Flowchart of edX collecting files for the data package and then
      encrypting, compressing, and uploading them to Amazon S3 and of data czar
      decrypting access credentials, accessing S3 bucket, and then downloading,
      extracting, and decrypting data package files.

.. _Decrypt an Encrypted File:

***************************
Decrypt an Encrypted File
***************************

To work with an encrypted .gpg file, you use the same GNU Privacy Guard program
that you used to create your public/private key pair.

To use your private key to decrypt the Amazon S3 credentials file and the files
in your data packages, follow these steps.

#. Save the encrypted file in an accessible location.

#. On a Windows computer, open Windows Explorer. On a Macintosh, open Finder.

#. Navigate to the file and right-click it.

#. On a Windows computer, select **Decrypt and verify**, and then select
   **Decrypt/Verify**. Do not change any other setting.

   On a Macintosh, select **Services**, and then select **OpenPGP: Decrypt
   File**.

#. Enter your passphrase. The GNU Privacy Guard program decrypts the file.

For example, when you decrypt the credentials.csv.gpg file the result is a
credentials.csv file. Open the decrypted credentials.csv file to see that it
contains your email address, your Access Key, and your Secret Key.

 .. image:: ../Images/AWS_Credentials.png
  :alt: A .csv file, open in Notepad, with the Access Key value and the Secret
        Key value underlined.

.. _Use your credentials:

******************************************
Use your Credentials to Access Amazon S3
******************************************

Once you have your decrypted credentials, you can use them to :ref:`access Amazon S3<Access Amazon S3>` and download your data package.

.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst

Commit message:

chore: Added instructions to change Key Material to RSA for GPG keys.

en_us/data/source/access/credentials.rst, after:

.. _Getting_Credentials_Data_Czar:

####################################################
Keys and Credentials for Data Transfers
####################################################

EdX transfers course data to the data czars at our partner institutions in
regularly generated data packages. Data packages can be accessed only by the
data czar at each partner institution. This section describes how data czars
can set up and use the credentials and public/private key pairs they need so
that they can download and decrypt the edX data package.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 2

*************************************
Overview of Key Setup and Exchange
*************************************

The data czar who is selected at each institution sets up keys for securely
transferring files from edX to the partner institution. Meanwhile, the
Analytics team at edX sets up credentials so that the data czar can log in to
the site where data packages are stored.

 .. image:: ../Images/Data_Czar_Initialization.png
  :alt: Flowchart of data czar creating public and private keys and sending the
      public key to edX, and of edX creating data storage credentials and
      encrypting those credentials with the public key before sending them to
      the data czar.

After these steps for setting up credentials are complete, the data czar can
download data packages on an ongoing basis.

****************************************************************
Data Czar: Create Keys for Encryption and Decryption
****************************************************************

To ensure the security of data packages, edX encrypts all files before making
them available to a partner institution. As a result, when you receive a data
package (or other files) from edX, you must decrypt the files that it contains
before you use them.

The cryptographic processes of encrypting and decrypting data files require
that you create a pair of keys: the public key in the pair, which you send to
the edX Analytics team, is used to encrypt data. You use your corresponding
private key to decrypt any files that have been encrypted with that public key.

To create the keys needed for this encryption and decryption process, you use
GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG or GPG). Essentially, you install a cryptographic
application on your local computer and then supply your email address and a
secret passphrase (a password).

.. important::

 * The email address that you supply when you create your keys must be your
   official email address at your edX partner institution.

 * After you specify the passphrase, be sure to take any steps necessary to
   assure that you can use it in the future. To minimize security risks, GPG
   does not provide a mechanism for supplying you with a reminder hint.

 * Do not reveal your passphrase to anyone else.

The result is the public key that you send to edX to use in encrypting data
files for your institution, and the private key which you keep secret and use
to decrypt the encrypted files that you receive. Creating these keys is a one-
time process that you coordinate with your edX partner manager. Instructions
for creating the keys on Windows or Macintosh follow.

For more information about GPG encryption and creating key pairs, see the
`Gpg4win Compendium`_.


=====================
Create Keys: Windows
=====================

#. Go to the Gpg4win_ website and download the most recent version of Gpg4win.

#. Install Gpg4win and then open the Kleopatra Gpg4win application. A wizard
   presents a series of dialog boxes to collect information from you and
   generate your public key (called a certificate in Kleopatra).

   a. When you are prompted to specify the type of key pair you want, select
      **Create personal OpenPGP key pair**.

   b.  When you are prompted for your email address, be sure to enter *your
       official university or institution email address*. EdX cannot use
       public keys that are based on personal or other non-official email
       addresses to encrypt data.

   c. When you are prompted for a passphrase, enter a strong passphrase. Be
      sure to select a passphrase that you can remember, or use a secure method
      of retaining it for reuse in the future: you use this passphrase when you
      decrypt your data packages.

   d. Change the default Key Material from ECDSA/EdDSA to RSA by clicking on
      the 'Advanced Settings...' button and then choosing RSA as the 'Key Material'
      as shown in the images below.

      .. image:: ../Images/Data_Czar_Kleopatra.png
      .. image:: ../Images/Data_Czar_Kleopatra_advanced_settings.png

3. When Kleopatra presents the **Key Pair Successfully Created** dialog box,
   select **Send Certificate by EMail** to send the public key (and only the
   public key) to your edX partner manager.

#. Optionally, select **Make a Backup Copy of Your Key Pair** to store both of
   the keys on a removable data storage device.

.. important:: Do not reveal your passphrase, or share your private key, with
 anyone else. If you need another person to be able to transfer and decrypt
 files, work with edX to set her or him up as an additional data czar. Data
 czars must create and use their own passphrases.

=======================
Create Keys: Macintosh
=======================

#. Go to the `GPG Tools`_ website. Scroll down to the **GPG Suite** section of
   the page and select **Download GPG Suite**.

#. When the download is complete, select the .dmg file to begin the
   installation.

   When installation is complete, GPG Keychain Access opens a web page with
   `First Steps`_ and a dialog box.

#. Enter your name and email address. Be sure to enter *your official
   university or institution email address*. EdX cannot use public keys that
   are based on personal or other non-official email addresses to encrypt data.

#. Select **Generate key**. A dialog box opens to prompt you for a passphrase.

#. Enter a strong passphrase. Be sure to select a passphrase that you can
   remember, or use a secure method of retaining it for reuse in the future:
   you use this passphrase when you decrypt your data packages.

#. To send only your public key to your edX partner manager, select the key and
   then select **Export**. A dialog box opens.

#. Specify a file name and location to save the file. Make sure that **Format**
   is set to ASCII and that **Allow secret key export** is not selected.

   When you select **Save**, only the public key is saved in the resulting
   ``.asc`` file. Do not share your private key with edX or any third party.

#. Compose an email message to your edX partner manager. Attach the .asc
   file that you saved in the previous step to the message, then send the
   message.

****************************************************************
EdX: Deliver Credentials for Accessing Data Storage
****************************************************************

The data packages that edX prepares for each partner organization are uploaded
to the Amazon Web Service (AWS) Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). The edX
Analytics team creates an individual account to access this storage service for
each data czar. The credentials for accessing this account are called an Access
Key and a Secret Key.

After edX creates these access credentials for you, edX uses the public
encryption key that you sent your edX partner manager to encrypt the
credentials into a ``credentials.csv.gpg`` file. EdX then sends the file to you
as an email attachment.

The **credentials.csv.gpg** file is likely to be the first file that you
decrypt with your private GPG key. You use the same process to decrypt the data
package files that you retrieve from Amazon S3. See `Decrypt an Encrypted
File`_.

 .. image:: ../Images/Access_AmazonS3.png
  :alt: Flowchart of edX collecting files for the data package and then
      encrypting, compressing, and uploading them to Amazon S3 and of data czar
      decrypting access credentials, accessing S3 bucket, and then downloading,
      extracting, and decrypting data package files.

.. _Decrypt an Encrypted File:

***************************
Decrypt an Encrypted File
***************************

To work with an encrypted .gpg file, you use the same GNU Privacy Guard program
that you used to create your public/private key pair.

To use your private key to decrypt the Amazon S3 credentials file and the files
in your data packages, follow these steps.

#. Save the encrypted file in an accessible location.

#. On a Windows computer, open Windows Explorer. On a Macintosh, open Finder.

#. Navigate to the file and right-click it.

#. On a Windows computer, select **Decrypt and verify**, and then select
   **Decrypt/Verify**. Do not change any other setting.

   On a Macintosh, select **Services**, and then select **OpenPGP: Decrypt
   File**.

#. Enter your passphrase. The GNU Privacy Guard program decrypts the file.

For example, when you decrypt the credentials.csv.gpg file the result is a
credentials.csv file. Open the decrypted credentials.csv file to see that it
contains your email address, your Access Key, and your Secret Key.

 .. image:: ../Images/AWS_Credentials.png
  :alt: A .csv file, open in Notepad, with the Access Key value and the Secret
        Key value underlined.

.. _Use your credentials:

******************************************
Use your Credentials to Access Amazon S3
******************************************

Once you have your decrypted credentials, you can use them to :ref:`access Amazon S3<Access Amazon S3>` and download your data package.

.. include:: ../../../links/links.rst
