en_us/course_authors/source/video/add_video_to_course.rst, before:

.. _Adding a Video to a Course:

##########################
Adding a Video to a Course
##########################

To make a video visible in your course, you create a video component in a unit
in Studio, and then you add information for the video to the video component.
The information is different for courses on edx.org and courses on Edge.

.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1

.. _Add a Video to an edx org Course:

********************************
Add a Video to an edx.org Course
********************************

.. note::
  **This information applies only to courses that run on the edx.org site.**
  For information about adding videos to courses that run on Edge, see
  :ref:`Add a Video to an Edge Course`.

For courses on edx.org, you add the following information to the video
component.

* A display name for the component.
* The video ID that the upload process automatically creates for your video. To
  find the video ID, see :ref:`Copy the Video ID`.
* The transcript for your video, for videos with non-integrated transcripts.

.. _Copy the Video ID:

=================
Copy the Video ID
=================

To copy the video ID, follow these steps.

#. Open the course in Studio.

#. On the **Content** menu, select **Video Uploads**.

#. In the **Previous Uploads** list, locate the video that you want to
   include in the course.

#. Select the value in the **Video ID** column for the video. The video ID
   is assigned when you upload a video.

#. Right-click the value, and then select **Copy**. Be sure to copy the
   entire video ID value.

Note that the course team can add a video to their course as soon as the
unique video ID is visible in the **Previous Uploads** list on the **Video
Uploads** page. However, for a video to play successfully, the status for
the file must be “Ready”. Processing takes 24 hours to complete for all
encodings and all video hosting sites.

You can also :ref:`download a report<Reporting Video Status>` of all uploaded
videos. The report includes the video ID for every uploaded file.

=====================
Add a Video Component
=====================

.. note::
  **This information applies only to courses that run on the edx.org site.**
  For information about adding videos to courses that run on Edge, see
  :ref:`Add a Video to an Edge Course`.

To add a video and its transcript to an edx.org course, follow these steps.

#. In Studio, locate the unit that you want, and then select **Video** under
   **Add New Component**.

#. Select the **pencil icon** in the top left hand corner, and enter the name
   that you want learners to see for this video as the Component Display Name.

   This name appears as a heading above the video in the LMS, and it identifies
   the video for you in Insights. If you do not enter a display name, the
   platform specifies “Video” for you. Clicking the “Check” icon will save your
   changes, the “X” icon will discard them.

#. Under Video Source, in the **Video ID or URL** field, enter the Video ID,
   streaming media link, or video file URL.

#. Optionally, you can set more options for the video. For a
   description of each option, see :ref:`Video Settings`.

#. Select **Save** to save the video component.

.. _Add a Video to an Edge Course:

********************************
Add a Video to an Edge Course
********************************

.. note::
  **This information applies only to courses that run on the Edge site.**
  For information about adding videos to courses that run on edx.org, see
  :ref:`Add a Video to an edx org Course`.

For courses on Edge, you add the following information to the video
component.

.. include:: ../../../shared/video/add_video_to_course.rst

Commit message:

feat:  add video id and video url fields

en_us/course_authors/source/video/add_video_to_course.rst, after:

.. _Adding a Video to a Course:

##########################
Adding a Video to a Course
##########################

To make a video visible in your course, you create a video component in a unit
in Studio, and then you add information for the video to the video component.
The information is different for courses on edx.org and courses on Edge.

.. contents::
 :local:
 :depth: 1

.. _Add a Video to an edx org Course:

********************************
Add a Video to an edx.org Course
********************************

.. note::
  **This information applies only to courses that run on the edx.org site.**
  For information about adding videos to courses that run on Edge, see
  :ref:`Add a Video to an Edge Course`.

For courses on edx.org, you add the following information to the video
component.

* A display name for the component.
* The video ID that the upload process automatically creates for your video. To
  find the video ID, see :ref:`Copy the Video ID`.
* The transcript for your video, for videos with non-integrated transcripts.

.. _Copy the Video ID:

=================
Copy the Video ID
=================

To copy the video ID, follow these steps.

#. Open the course in Studio.

#. On the **Content** menu, select **Video Uploads**.

#. In the **Previous Uploads** list, locate the video that you want to
   include in the course.

#. Select the value in the **Video ID** column for the video. The video ID
   is assigned when you upload a video.

#. Right-click the value, and then select **Copy**. Be sure to copy the
   entire video ID value.

Note that the course team can add a video to their course as soon as the
unique video ID is visible in the **Previous Uploads** list on the **Video
Uploads** page. However, for a video to play successfully, the status for
the file must be “Ready”. Processing takes 24 hours to complete for all
encodings and all video hosting sites.

You can also :ref:`download a report<Reporting Video Status>` of all uploaded
videos. The report includes the video ID for every uploaded file.

=====================
Add a Video Component
=====================

.. note::
  **This information applies only to courses that run on the edx.org site.**
  For information about adding videos to courses that run on Edge, see
  :ref:`Add a Video to an Edge Course`.

To add a video and its transcript to an edx.org course, follow these steps.

#. In Studio, locate the unit that you want, and then select **Video** under
   **Add New Component**.

#. Select the **pencil icon** in the top left hand corner, and enter the name
   that you want learners to see for this video as the Component Display Name.

   This name appears as a heading above the video in the LMS, and it identifies
   the video for you in Insights. If you do not enter a display name, the
   platform specifies “Video” for you. Clicking the “Check” icon will save your
   changes, the “X” icon will discard them.

#. Under Video Source, in the **Video ID** field, enter the Video ID, or **Video
   URL** fields, enter the streaming media link, or video file URL.
   
   .. note::
      When you add the video ID, you do not need to add values to the **Video
      URL** or **Fallback Video** fields. The URLs that are associated with the
      video ID override any existing values in other fields.

#. Optionally, you can set more options for the video. For a
   description of each option, see :ref:`Video Settings`.

#. Select **Save** to save the video component.

.. _Add a Video to an Edge Course:

********************************
Add a Video to an Edge Course
********************************

.. note::
  **This information applies only to courses that run on the Edge site.**
  For information about adding videos to courses that run on edx.org, see
  :ref:`Add a Video to an edx org Course`.

For courses on Edge, you add the following information to the video
component.

.. include:: ../../../shared/video/add_video_to_course.rst
