==================================
Documentation for edX Partners
==================================

Using edX Insights
*******************

The video engagement feature in edX Insights is now available for courses
running on edx.org and edX Edge. Updated the :ref:`insights:Engagement_Video`
section to change the computation of this data from weekly to daily, and from
aggregate view counts to average view counts at the section and subsection
levels.

Building and Running an edX Course
**********************************

* Added the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Using edX as an LTI Tool Provider`
  section.

* Added the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Setting Up Course Certificates` topic.

* Added information about awarding partial credit for certain types of
  problems, listed in the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Awarding Partial Credit for
  a Problem` topic.

* Added the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Maximum Video File Size` topic to the
  :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Uploading Videos in Studio` section.

EdX Research Guide
*******************

* Added events for teams to the :ref:`data:Tracking Logs` section.

* Added events for digital certificates :ref:`data:Tracking Logs` section.

EdX Guide for Students
******************************

Updated the :ref:`learners:Certificates` topic to include information about web
certificates.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

This section lists updates to the *latest* versions of Open edX documentation.
We do not update the documentation for Open edX releases.


Building and Running an Open edX Course
****************************************

* Added the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Using Open edX as an LTI Tool Provider`
  section.

* Added the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Setting Up Course Certificates` topic.

* Added information about awarding partial credit for certain types of
  problems, listed in the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Awarding Partial Credit for
  a Problem` topic.

* Updated the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Student_Answer_Submission` section to
  include topics about the downloadable student state report and the submission
  history report.

EdX Developer's Guide
**********************

Added the :ref:`opendevelopers:Contributing to the Documentation for your Open
Source Feature` topic.

Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform
************************************************************

* Added the :ref:`installation:Installing the Open edX Analytics Developer
  Stack` section.

* Added the :ref:`installation:Configuring an edX Instance as an LTI Tool
  Provider` section.

* Added the :ref:`installation:Options for LTI Authentication and User
  Provisioning` section.

* Added the :ref:`installation:Enabling Social Sharing of Courses and
  Certificates` section.
