==================================
Documentation for edX Partners
==================================

Building and Running an edX Course
**********************************

The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Accessibility Index` section has been expanded and
moved to the top level of the guide.

Using edX Insights
*******************

The :ref:`insights:Performance Index` section is updated to reflect that
submission data is now averaged rather than summed.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

The `docs.edx.org`_ website now includes a section for the latest version of
the Open edX guides. These guides are available in addition to guides for the
Open edX Birch release, and offer the most up-to-date documentation available
for features in the Open edX platform.

Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform
***********************************************************

The new :ref:`installation:Enable CCX` section describes how to
configure the Open edX Platform to allow users with the right permissions to
create custom courses.

Building and Running an Open edX Course
****************************************

* The :ref:`opencoursestaff:Accessibility Index`. section has been expanded and
  moved to the top level of the guide.

* The new :ref:`opencoursestaff:Creating a Custom Course` section describes how
  to create a custom course in the Learning Management System to reuse course
  content.

* The new :ref:`opencoursestaff:Report Learners Not Yet Enrolled` section
  describes how to produce a report of auto-enrolled email addresses that do
  not yet correspond to an enrolled learner.
