==================================
Documentation for edX Partners
==================================

Building and Running an edX Course
**********************************
 
* Added the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Oppia Exploration Tool` topic.
* Added information about :ref:`setting a course number
  override<partnercoursestaff:Set a Course Number Override>` to the **Setting
  Up Course Certificates** topic.
* Added the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Reporting Certificate Data` topic.

EdX Research Guide
*******************

Added the :ref:`data:content` section.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

This section lists updates to the *latest* versions of Open edX documentation.
We do not update the documentation for Open edX releases.


Building and Running an Open edX Course
****************************************

* Added the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Oppia Exploration Tool` topic.
* Added information about :ref:`setting a course number
  override<opencoursestaff:Set a Course Number Override>` to the **Setting
  Up Course Certificates** topic.
* Added the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Reporting Certificate Data` topic.

Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform
************************************************************

Updated all topics in :ref:`installation:Configuring the Open edX Platform` to
instruct users to modify the lms.env.json and cms.env.json files, not the
corresponding Python files.

EdX Developer's Guide
**********************

Updated the Analytics section in the edX Developer's Guide with new
configuration information for sites that use the Segment event tracking
system. For more information, see :ref:`opendevelopers:analytics`.