==================================
Documentation for edX Partners
==================================

Building and Running an edX Course
**********************************

* Topics within this guide have been reorganized. New top level sections
  include :ref:`Course Assets Index`, :ref:`Course Features Index`,
  :ref:`Grading Index`, and :ref:`Manage Student Progress Index`.

* Added the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Office Mix Tool` section.

* Added information about specifying additional file types that learners can
  upload for open response assessments to the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:PA Allow
  Images` topic.

EdX Learner's Guide
******************************

Added information about additional file types that learners can upload to the
:ref:`learners:Submit a File with Your Response` topic.

EdX Research Guide
********************

* Added new events to track votes on discussion posts and responses to the
  :ref:`data:forum_events` section.

* Added events that track interactions with the Office Mix XBlock to the
  :ref:`data:content` section.

* Updated events in the :ref:`data:ora2` section to include additional file
  types.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

Building and Running an Open edX Course
****************************************

* Topics within this guide have been reorganized. New top level sections
  include :ref:`Course Assets Index`, :ref:`Course Features Index`,
  :ref:`Grading Index`, and :ref:`Manage Student Progress Index`.

* Added the :ref:`opencoursestaff:Office Mix Tool` section.

* Added information about specifying additional file types for learners to
  upload to the :ref:`opencoursestaff:PA Allow Images` topic.

Open edX Learner's Guide
*************************

Added information about additional file types that learners can upload to the
:ref:`openlearners:Submit a File with Your Response` topic.

Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform
***********************************************************

Added the :ref:`installation:Configuring ORA2 to Prohibit Submission of File
Types` topic.
