==================================
Documentation for edX Partners
==================================

Building and Running an edX Course
**********************************
 
* Added `Awarding Partial Credit for a Problem`_ to the
  *Working with Problems* topic. This section contains links to information on
  configuring checkbox, dropdown, multiple choice, and numeric input problem
  topics to award partial credit.

* Updated `Course Data`_ to include descriptions of newly added
  values.

* Updated `Enrollment`_ to remove references to enrollment
  counts on the Instructor Dashboard. Course enrollment data is available
  in edX Insights.


==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

This section lists updates to the *latest* versions of Open edX documentation.
We do not update the documentation for Open edX releases.


Building and Running an Open edX Course
****************************************
 
* Added `Awarding Partial Credit for a Problem - Open edX`_ to the *Working
  with Problems* topic. This section contains links to information on
  configuring checkbox, dropdown, multiple choice, and numeric input problem
  topics to award partial credit.

* Updated `Course Data - Open edX`_ to include descriptions of newly added
  values.

* Updated `Managing Course Discussions - Open edX`_ with information about
  discussion administration options that are not yet available in the edX
  mobile apps.


Open Learning XML Guide
****************************************
 
Added `Awarding Partial Credit for a Problem - OLX`_ to the *Working
with Problems* topic. This section contains links to information on configuring
checkbox, dropdown, multiple choice, and numeric input problem topics to award
partial credit.
