==================================
Documentation for edX Partners
==================================

Building and Running an edX Course
**********************************

The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Working with Video Components` section now
includes an :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Adding a Pre-Roll Video` topic.

edX Research Guide
**********************************

* The new :ref:`data:pre-roll` topic describes the
  events emitted when users interact with pre-roll videos.

* The topic about :ref:`data:video` now includes
  descriptions of the ``video_show_cc_menu`` and ``video_hide_cc_menu`` events.

==================================
Latest Open edX Guides
==================================

The `docs.edx.org`_ web site now includes a section for the latest version of
the Open edX guides. These guides are available in addition to guides for the
Open edX Birch release, and offer the most up-to-date documentation available
for features in the Open edX platform.

Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform
***********************************************************

* The new :ref:`installation:Enable edX Search` section describes the Django
  application that provides access to search services from within edX Platform
  applications.

* The new :ref:`installation:Enable Certificates` section describes how to
  enable and configure the certificate generation process.

* The new :ref:`installation:Enable Badging` section describes how to enable
  and configure badges.

* The section about :ref:`installation:Setting up the Mobile Applications`
  now includes information about configuring push notifications, and has been
  enhanced with additional detail.

Building and Running an Open edX Course
****************************************

* The new :ref:`opencoursestaff:Setting Up Course Certificates` section
  describes how you configure certificates for a course in Studio.

* The new :ref:`opencoursestaff:Manage Course Fees` section describes
  configuration and management of fees for paid courses.

* The "Creating Exercises and Tools" section now includes a list of the
  :ref:`opencoursestaff:Mobile-Ready Problem Types` that learners can complete
  using the edX mobile applications.

* The :ref:`opencoursestaff:Add a Course Update` topic now includes
  information about sending notifications to the edX mobile applications for
  course handouts.

Open edX Learner's Guide
****************************

* A section of frequently asked questions about the edX mobile applications is
  now available. For more information, see :ref:`openlearners:SFD Mobile`.

* The new :ref:`openlearners:SFD Search` section describes how
  learners can search for a term in a single course or in all of the courses
  they are enrolled in.

* The section about :ref:`openlearners:Certificates` now includes information
  about sharing certificates and digital badges.

* The new :ref:`openlearners:SFD Notes` section describes how learners can
  highlight and make notes about course content.

========================
EdX Platform APIs
========================

A new section of the *EdX Platform APIs* guide is now available for the
:ref:`openplatformapi:Profile Images API Version 1.0`.
