en_us/shared/accessibility/edX_accessib_guidelines.rst, before:

.. _edX Accessibility Guidelines:

****************************************************************
What Is The EdX Accessibility Best Practices Guidance Based On?
****************************************************************

EdX measures and evaluates accessibility using the World Wide Web Consortium's
`Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/>`_
(Dec. 11, 2008). All features that are merged into edX repositories are
expected to `conform <http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#conformance>`_ to `Level AA
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#cc1>`_ of this specification and satisfy the
requirements outlined in the edX `Website Accessibility Policy
<http://www.edx.org/accessibility>`_.

In addition, our guidance is based on principles of universal
design (usable by all, to the greatest extent possible, without the need for
adaptation or specialized design). Course teams who build courses based on
these principles create an inclusive experience that considers the diverse set
of learning styles and needs of all learners, including learners with
disabilities, learners whose native language is not English, learners with
technical issues such as low bandwidth internet or no access to audio.

For the purposes of this guidance, we assume that end users are equipped with
the appropriate adaptive technology and compatible software. To supplement the
accessibility you can achieve within our platform, we recommend that
you engage the resources available at your institution to support learners
with disabilities. Most institutions offer disability support services and
information technology resources that provide accessibility advice and
support. These professionals are trained in making disability accommodation
decisions and can advise you on what accommodations may be appropriate in
light of the goals of the course and the instructional methodologies employed.

For more information, see the following topics.

* :ref:`Supporting Learners with Diverse Needs`
* :ref:`Accessibility Best Practices for Course Content Development`

Commit message:

docs: WCAG21 update (#1940)
* Update edX_accessib_guidelines.rst

* Update edX_accessib_guidelines.rst

* Update edX_accessib_guidelines.rst

* remove reference to DOJ agreement

* added reference to compatibility with a11y tools

* update resource links with contextual info

* update links and references for 2021

Co-authored-by: Jeff Witt <jeff.witt@edx.org>

en_us/shared/accessibility/edX_accessib_guidelines.rst, after:

.. _edX Accessibility Guidelines:

****************************************************************
What Is The edX Accessibility Best Practices Guidance Based On?
****************************************************************

edX measures and evaluates accessibility primarily using the World Wide Web Consortium's
`Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/>`_
(05 June 2018). All features that are merged into edX repositories are
expected to `conform <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#conformance>`_ to `Level AA
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#cc1>`_ of this specification and satisfy the
requirements outlined in the edX `Website Accessibility Policy
<https://www.edx.org/accessibility>`_.  

As the edX platform is strongly based on well-accepted `HTML5 markup standards <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/>`_ and `WAI-ARIA <https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/aria/>`_, we expect that learners who require additional accessibility tools such as screen readers and screen magnifiers will ejoy strong compatibility. We test regularly with the most popular accessibility tools.

In addition, our guidance is based on principles of `universal
design <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_design>`_ (usable by all, to the greatest extent possible, without the need for
adaptation or specialized design) and `Universal Design for Learning (UDL) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Design_for_Learning>`_. Course teams who build courses based on these principles create an inclusive experience that considers the diverse set
of learning styles and needs of all learners, including learners with
disabilities, learners whose native language is not English, and learners with
technical issues such as low bandwidth internet or no access to audio.

To supplement the
accessibility of the materials you can create within our platform, we recommend that
you engage the resources available at your institution to support learners
with disabilities. Most institutions offer disability support services and
information technology resources that provide accessibility advice and
support. These trained professionals typically provide the following services, which may be equally applicable to courses that are taught online:

* Help with making disability accommodation decisions and advise you on what accommodations may be appropriate in light of the goals of the course and the instructional methodologies employed. 

* Help with `document accessibility remediation <https://helpx.adobe.com/acrobat/using/create-verify-pdf-accessibility.html>`_  

* For live events, they can help with sourcing providers for learners' `real-time captioning <https://www.nad.org/resources/technology/captioning-for-access/communication-access-realtime-translation/>`_, `signed-language interpretation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_interpretation#Sign_language>`_, or `cued speech transliteration <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cued_speech>`_ needs.

For more information, see the following topics.

* :ref:`Supporting Learners with Diverse Needs`
* :ref:`Accessibility Best Practices for Course Content Development`
