=========================================================
Send Email Messages to Learners Based on Enrollment Track
=========================================================

Course teams can now address email messages to all learners in a particular
enrollment track by selecting a single addressing option. For courses that
have more than one enrollment track, each enrollment track is now available as
a separate recipient group on the **Email** page of the instructor dashboard.
Track-based recipient groups will not exist for courses that include only a
single enrollment track.

As with other addressing combinations on the **Email** page, de-duplication is
applied when course teams select multiple recipient groups, so that learners
who belong to more than one of the selected groups do not receive more than
one copy of the message. (:JIRA:`TNL-6162`) For more information, see
:ref:`partnercoursestaff:Enrollment Track Recipient Groups` in the *Building
and Running an edX Course* guide or :ref:`opencoursestaff:Enrollment Track
Recipient Groups` in the *Building and Running an Open edX Course* guide.

================================================
Accessibility Improvements to Course Navigation
================================================

Navigating within a course using the navigation bar at the top of the course
page is significantly improved for keyboard and screen reader users.

Keyboard users can now use the left and right arrow keys to move through the
components in the top navigation bar, and the tab key to move from the current
selected tab into the main course content area. Note that if the Bookmarks
feature is enabled for a course, the first focusable element in the main course
content area is the link for **Bookmark this page**.

For screen reader users, the elements of the navigation bar are now correctly
identified by role (such as "tab list", "tab", or "tab panel"). Screen reader
information for individual tabs now also includes their current state
("collapsed" or "expanded and selected").

