en_us/shared/subsections/open_response_assessments/Access_ORA_Info.rst, before:

.. _Accessing ORA Assignment Information:

######################################
Accessing Metrics for ORA Assignments
######################################

After you release an open response assessment assignment, you can access various
metrics for the assignment or for all open response assessment assignments in
the course. For example, you can view the number of learners in each step of the
assignment or in possible states such as "Waiting" or "Completed" within the
assignment. In addition to viewing metrics for the assignment or for assignments
in a course, you can also access assignment details for an individual learner,
or :ref:`generate a report <Generate ORA Report>` containing learner and
response details for ORA assignments in the course.

For information about tasks that you can perform on learner responses in an
ORA assignment, including :ref:`performing a grade override
assessment<Override a learner assessment grade>` or :ref:`cancelling a
learner's submission<Remove a learner response from peer grading>`, see
:ref:`Managing ORA Assignments`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

.. _View Metrics for All ORA Assignments:

********************************************************
View Statistics for All ORA Assignments in a Course
********************************************************

To view metrics about all of the ORA assignments in a course, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of the course.
#. Select **Instructor** to open the instructor dashboard.
#. On the instructor dashboard, select **Open Responses**.

The **Open Responses** tab of the instructor dashboard displays the following
information.

* The number of course units that include an ORA assignment.
* The number of ORA assignments in the course.
* The total number of submitted responses.
* The number of learners who are in each of the training, peer,
  self, and staff workflow states.
* The number of learners who have received a final grade.

The **Open Responses** tab also displays the same information for each separate
ORA assignment in the course, grouped by the course units that include ORA
assignments.


.. _List and manage students waiting in peer step:

*********************************************
List and manage students waiting in peer step
*********************************************

On ORA problems with the peer assessment step, sometimes learners might get stuck
waiting peer reponses to evaluate or peer reviews from other learners indefinitely.
There's a tool in the instructor dashboard that allows listing and managing those
learners.

To view a list of students in the waiting step of an ORA problem in a course, follow
these steps.

#. View the live version of the course.
#. Select **Instructor** to open the instructor dashboard.
#. On the instructor dashboard, select **Open Responses**.
#. In the table listing the ORA problems, locate the waiting column corresponding to
   the problem you want to see users waiting on.
#. If there are any students in the waiting step, the column will become clickable.
#. Select it to open the **Waiting step details** page.

The **Waiting step details** page displays some information related to the peer step
configuration and a table listing users in the waiting step with the
following attributes:

* Usernames
* Number of peers assessed
* Number of peer reviews received
* Time spent on the waiting step so far
* Status from staff assessment step, if available in problem
* Final grade status (waiting or overwritten).

The **Waiting step details** page also allows managing student grades through the
**Manage individual learners** button near the bottom of the page, which works in
the same manner as :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Access Information for a Specific Learner`.


.. _PA View Metrics for Individual Steps:

************************************************
View Statistics for a Single ORA Assignment
************************************************

To view metrics about learners in a single ORA assignment, including the number
who are active in each step, follow these steps.

#. Open the ORA assignment in the course.

#. Scroll to the bottom of the assignment and select **View Assignment
   Statistics**.

   You see statistics for the assignment, including the total number of
   responses and the location ID for the assignment.

   In the **Learner Progress** section, for each assessment step in the
   assignment, you can see the number of learners who are currently working
   through (but who have not completed) that step. Only assessment types that
   exist in the assignment are included.

   .. note:: If a Staff Assessment step exists in the assignment, this step
      will always show 0 active learners, because no learner actions are
      required for that step.

   In addition to learners who are active in the assessment steps of the
   assignment, you can see the number of learners who are in the following
   states in the assignment.

     * **Waiting**: Learners who have finished the requirements for a step
       and are waiting for their responses to be assessed by peers or staff.

     * **Done**: Learners who have completed all of their required steps, and
       have received the required number of reviews.

     * **Cancelled**: Learners who have had their responses cancelled.

In the **Dates** section below **Learner Progress**, the release and due dates
for each step in the assignment are shown.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_AssignmentStats.png
   :width: 500
   :alt: The View Assignment Statistics page shows the number of active learners in each step, the number of learners in the Waiting, Done, and Cancelled states, and the start and due dates for each step.


.. _Generate ORA Report:

************************************************
Generate a Report for ORA Assignments
************************************************

To generate a report containing details of the ORA assignments in the course,
follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download**.

#. In the **Reports** section, select **Generate ORA Data Report**.

   A status message indicates that the ORA data report is being generated. This
   process might take some time to complete, but you can navigate away from this
   page and do other work while it runs.

   To check the progress of the report generation, reload the page in your
   browser and scroll down to the **Pending Tasks** section. The table shows
   the status of active tasks.

   When the report is complete, a linked .csv file name becomes available above
   the **Pending Tasks** section. File names are in the format
   ``{course_id}_ORA_data_{datetime}.csv``. The most recently generated
   reports appear at the top of the list.

#. To open or save the generated ORA data report, locate and select the link
   for the grade report you requested.

   You can open .csv files in a spreadsheet application to sort, graph, and
   compare data.


.. _Interpret ORA Data Report:

====================================
Interpret the ORA Data Report
====================================

The ORA data report for your course is a time-stamped .csv file that contains
data for all the ORA assignments in your course. For each ORA assignment in
the course, the report provides information that includes each learner's
anonymized ID, response, assessments details and scores, and the final score
for the assignment. For more details about each column in the report, see the
following descriptions.


.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_Data_Report_Example.png
   :alt: An example ORA data report shown in Excel.


The .csv file contains one row of data for each response from a learner.

* The IDs in the **Submission ID** and **Item ID** columns uniquely identify the
  problem within the course content and the learner's submission for that
  problem. The **Problem Name** column is also available to help identify a
  problem by its display name.

* The **Username** column helps identify impacted learner submissions for further
  platform review if applicable.

* The **Anonymized Student ID** column lists an ID for each learner without
  revealing confidential, personally identifiable data such as email addresses
  and usernames.

* The **Date/Time Response Submitted** column displays the date and time that the
  learner submitted her response, in YYYY-MM-DD HH-MM-SS format.

* The **Response** column displays the content of the learner's response.

* The **Assessment Details** column displays the following details for the
  assessments that were performed on the response.

  * The time and date that the assessment was submitted.
  * The type of assessment: self (SE), peer (PE), staff (ST).
  * The ID of the person who performed the assessment.
  * Any text comments about the response that were included in the assessment.

* The **Assessment Scores** column lists the scores that the response received
  in self, peer, or staff assessments.

* The **Date/Time Final Score Given**, **Final Score Points Earned**, and the
  **Final Score Points Possible** columns provide details of the final score
  that the response received. If a response has not received enough
  assessments for the assignment to be considered complete, these columns show
  a value of "None".

* The **Feedback Statements Selected** and **Feedback on Peer Assessments**
  columns together show the information that learners provided in the **Provide
  Feedback on Peer Assessments** section of their ORA assignments. This section
  is available to learners only when all assessments for an assignment have been
  completed, and provides an optional way for learners to comment on their
  experience of the peer assessment process.

  The **Feedback Statements Selected** column displays the text of the
  feedback statements (if any) that the learner selected to describe their
  experience of the peer assessment process. Learners can select either "These
  assessments were useful" or "These assessments were not useful". They can
  also select either or both of "I disagree with one or more of the peer
  assessments of my response" and "Some comments I received were
  inappropriate".

  If a learner also provided a free-form comment in the text field below the
  selectable feedback statements, the text appears in the **Feedback on Peer
  Assessments** column.


.. _Generate a Report for ORA File Submissions and Attachments:

***********************************************************
Generate a Report for ORA File Submissions and Attachments
***********************************************************

To generate a report containing details of the ORA assignments in the course,
follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download**.

#. In the **Reports** section, select **Generate ORA Submission Files Archive**.

   A status message indicates that the ORA data report is being generated. This
   process might take some time to complete, but you can navigate away from this
   page and do other work while it runs.

   To check the progress of the report generation, reload the page in your
   browser and scroll down to the **Pending Tasks** section. The table shows
   the status of active tasks.

   When the report is complete, a linked .zip file name becomes available above
   the **Pending Tasks** section. File names are in the format
   ``{course_id}_submission_files_{datetime}.csv``. The most recently generated
   reports appear at the top of the list.

#. To open or save the generated ORA submission files archive, locate and select
   the link for the archive you requested.

   You can open .zip files using your computer and navigate the student's
   submissions from your file explorer.


.. _Interpret the ORA Submission Files Archive:

==========================================
Interpret the ORA Submission Files Archive
==========================================

The ORA submission files archive for your course is a zipped folder that contains
both a time-stamped .csv file listing out all included submissions as well as
folder directories with the contents of these submissions for each ORA problem
contained in your course.

This zipped directory contains a ``downloads.csv`` file which lists all available submissions,
their location, the content of any text submissions and file IDs for any attached
files included in the submission. Missing or corrupted files will be annotated with 
``False`` in the ``file_found`` column of this document but will not be included in the 
zipped file archive.

Inside the zipped directory there's a folder for each unit that contains an ORA
problem in the course named using the following format: ``[section_index] Section
title, [subsection_index] Subsection name, [unit_index] Unit name``.
Example: ``[1] First section, [2] Second subsection, [3] Unit name``.

Each of the folders mentioned above contain the text submissions for all students
in .txt format along with any attached files in that submission if applicable. The
filename indicates the ORA index, username (or partner ID if availabel) and
prompt index for a given ORA. When responses are file uploads, the name will also
include the original filename.
Example: ``[1] - john_doe - prompt_0.txt``.

Commit message:

docs: clarify ora waiting details (#2305)

en_us/shared/subsections/open_response_assessments/Access_ORA_Info.rst, after:

.. _Accessing ORA Assignment Information:

######################################
Accessing Metrics for ORA Assignments
######################################

After you release an open response assessment assignment, you can access various
metrics for the assignment or for all open response assessment assignments in
the course. For example, you can view the number of learners in each step of the
assignment or in possible states such as "Waiting" or "Completed" within the
assignment. In addition to viewing metrics for the assignment or for assignments
in a course, you can also access assignment details for an individual learner,
or :ref:`generate a report <Generate ORA Report>` containing learner and
response details for ORA assignments in the course.

For information about tasks that you can perform on learner responses in an
ORA assignment, including :ref:`performing a grade override
assessment<Override a learner assessment grade>` or :ref:`cancelling a
learner's submission<Remove a learner response from peer grading>`, see
:ref:`Managing ORA Assignments`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

.. _View Metrics for All ORA Assignments:

********************************************************
View Statistics for All ORA Assignments in a Course
********************************************************

To view metrics about all of the ORA assignments in a course, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of the course.
#. Select **Instructor** to open the instructor dashboard.
#. On the instructor dashboard, select **Open Responses**.

The **Open Responses** tab of the instructor dashboard displays the following
information.

* The number of course units that include an ORA assignment.
* The number of ORA assignments in the course.
* The total number of submitted responses.
* The number of learners who are in each of the training, peer,
  self, and staff workflow states.
* The number of learners who have received a final grade.

The **Open Responses** tab also displays the same information for each separate
ORA assignment in the course, grouped by the course units that include ORA
assignments.


.. _List and manage students waiting in peer step:

*********************************************
List and manage students waiting in peer step
*********************************************

On ORA problems with the peer assessment step, sometimes learners might get stuck
waiting peer reponses to evaluate or peer reviews from other learners indefinitely.
There's a tool in the instructor dashboard that allows listing and managing those
learners.

To view a list of students in the waiting step of an ORA problem in a course, follow
these steps.

#. View the live version of the course.
#. Select **Instructor** to open the instructor dashboard.
#. On the instructor dashboard, select **Open Responses**.
#. In the table listing the ORA problems, locate the waiting column corresponding to
   the problem you want to see users waiting on.
#. Select it to open the **Waiting step details** page.

The **Waiting step details** page displays some information related to the peer step
configuration and a table listing users in the waiting step with the
following attributes:

* Usernames
* Number of peers assessed
* Number of peer reviews received
* Time spent on the waiting step so far
* Status from staff assessment step, if available in problem
* Final grade status (waiting or overwritten).

The **Waiting step details** page also allows managing student grades through the
**Manage individual learners** button near the bottom of the page, which works in
the same manner as :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Access Information for a Specific Learner`.

   .. note:: The  **Waiting step details** page will display any learners who have
    recieved fewer peer assessments than the assignment is configured to require.
    This means that even after performing a staff override for a waiting learner,
    they won't immediately disappear from the table. Refer to the  **Final grade status**
    column to determine if a learner is actually waiting or not.

.. _PA View Metrics for Individual Steps:

************************************************
View Statistics for a Single ORA Assignment
************************************************

To view metrics about learners in a single ORA assignment, including the number
who are active in each step, follow these steps.

#. Open the ORA assignment in the course.

#. Scroll to the bottom of the assignment and select **View Assignment
   Statistics**.

   You see statistics for the assignment, including the total number of
   responses and the location ID for the assignment.

   In the **Learner Progress** section, for each assessment step in the
   assignment, you can see the number of learners who are currently working
   through (but who have not completed) that step. Only assessment types that
   exist in the assignment are included.

   .. note:: If a Staff Assessment step exists in the assignment, this step
      will always show 0 active learners, because no learner actions are
      required for that step.

   In addition to learners who are active in the assessment steps of the
   assignment, you can see the number of learners who are in the following
   states in the assignment.

     * **Waiting**: Learners who have finished the requirements for a step
       and are waiting for their responses to be assessed by peers or staff.

     * **Done**: Learners who have completed all of their required steps, and
       have received the required number of reviews.

     * **Cancelled**: Learners who have had their responses cancelled.

In the **Dates** section below **Learner Progress**, the release and due dates
for each step in the assignment are shown.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_AssignmentStats.png
   :width: 500
   :alt: The View Assignment Statistics page shows the number of active learners in each step, the number of learners in the Waiting, Done, and Cancelled states, and the start and due dates for each step.


.. _Generate ORA Report:

************************************************
Generate a Report for ORA Assignments
************************************************

To generate a report containing details of the ORA assignments in the course,
follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download**.

#. In the **Reports** section, select **Generate ORA Data Report**.

   A status message indicates that the ORA data report is being generated. This
   process might take some time to complete, but you can navigate away from this
   page and do other work while it runs.

   To check the progress of the report generation, reload the page in your
   browser and scroll down to the **Pending Tasks** section. The table shows
   the status of active tasks.

   When the report is complete, a linked .csv file name becomes available above
   the **Pending Tasks** section. File names are in the format
   ``{course_id}_ORA_data_{datetime}.csv``. The most recently generated
   reports appear at the top of the list.

#. To open or save the generated ORA data report, locate and select the link
   for the grade report you requested.

   You can open .csv files in a spreadsheet application to sort, graph, and
   compare data.


.. _Interpret ORA Data Report:

====================================
Interpret the ORA Data Report
====================================

The ORA data report for your course is a time-stamped .csv file that contains
data for all the ORA assignments in your course. For each ORA assignment in
the course, the report provides information that includes each learner's
anonymized ID, response, assessments details and scores, and the final score
for the assignment. For more details about each column in the report, see the
following descriptions.


.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_Data_Report_Example.png
   :alt: An example ORA data report shown in Excel.


The .csv file contains one row of data for each response from a learner.

* The IDs in the **Submission ID** and **Item ID** columns uniquely identify the
  problem within the course content and the learner's submission for that
  problem. The **Problem Name** column is also available to help identify a
  problem by its display name.

* The **Username** column helps identify impacted learner submissions for further
  platform review if applicable.

* The **Anonymized Student ID** column lists an ID for each learner without
  revealing confidential, personally identifiable data such as email addresses
  and usernames.

* The **Date/Time Response Submitted** column displays the date and time that the
  learner submitted her response, in YYYY-MM-DD HH-MM-SS format.

* The **Response** column displays the content of the learner's response.

* The **Assessment Details** column displays the following details for the
  assessments that were performed on the response.

  * The time and date that the assessment was submitted.
  * The type of assessment: self (SE), peer (PE), staff (ST).
  * The ID of the person who performed the assessment.
  * Any text comments about the response that were included in the assessment.

* The **Assessment Scores** column lists the scores that the response received
  in self, peer, or staff assessments.

* The **Date/Time Final Score Given**, **Final Score Points Earned**, and the
  **Final Score Points Possible** columns provide details of the final score
  that the response received. If a response has not received enough
  assessments for the assignment to be considered complete, these columns show
  a value of "None".

* The **Feedback Statements Selected** and **Feedback on Peer Assessments**
  columns together show the information that learners provided in the **Provide
  Feedback on Peer Assessments** section of their ORA assignments. This section
  is available to learners only when all assessments for an assignment have been
  completed, and provides an optional way for learners to comment on their
  experience of the peer assessment process.

  The **Feedback Statements Selected** column displays the text of the
  feedback statements (if any) that the learner selected to describe their
  experience of the peer assessment process. Learners can select either "These
  assessments were useful" or "These assessments were not useful". They can
  also select either or both of "I disagree with one or more of the peer
  assessments of my response" and "Some comments I received were
  inappropriate".

  If a learner also provided a free-form comment in the text field below the
  selectable feedback statements, the text appears in the **Feedback on Peer
  Assessments** column.


.. _Generate a Report for ORA File Submissions and Attachments:

***********************************************************
Generate a Report for ORA File Submissions and Attachments
***********************************************************

To generate a report containing details of the ORA assignments in the course,
follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course.

#. Select **Instructor**, and then select **Data Download**.

#. In the **Reports** section, select **Generate ORA Submission Files Archive**.

   A status message indicates that the ORA data report is being generated. This
   process might take some time to complete, but you can navigate away from this
   page and do other work while it runs.

   To check the progress of the report generation, reload the page in your
   browser and scroll down to the **Pending Tasks** section. The table shows
   the status of active tasks.

   When the report is complete, a linked .zip file name becomes available above
   the **Pending Tasks** section. File names are in the format
   ``{course_id}_submission_files_{datetime}.csv``. The most recently generated
   reports appear at the top of the list.

#. To open or save the generated ORA submission files archive, locate and select
   the link for the archive you requested.

   You can open .zip files using your computer and navigate the student's
   submissions from your file explorer.


.. _Interpret the ORA Submission Files Archive:

==========================================
Interpret the ORA Submission Files Archive
==========================================

The ORA submission files archive for your course is a zipped folder that contains
both a time-stamped .csv file listing out all included submissions as well as
folder directories with the contents of these submissions for each ORA problem
contained in your course.

This zipped directory contains a ``downloads.csv`` file which lists all available submissions,
their location, the content of any text submissions and file IDs for any attached
files included in the submission. Missing or corrupted files will be annotated with 
``False`` in the ``file_found`` column of this document but will not be included in the 
zipped file archive.

Inside the zipped directory there's a folder for each unit that contains an ORA
problem in the course named using the following format: ``[section_index] Section
title, [subsection_index] Subsection name, [unit_index] Unit name``.
Example: ``[1] First section, [2] Second subsection, [3] Unit name``.

Each of the folders mentioned above contain the text submissions for all students
in .txt format along with any attached files in that submission if applicable. The
filename indicates the ORA index, username (or partner ID if availabel) and
prompt index for a given ORA. When responses are file uploads, the name will also
include the original filename.
Example: ``[1] - john_doe - prompt_0.txt``.
