en_us/shared/subsections/open_response_assessments/Manage_ORA_Assignment.rst, before:

.. _Managing ORA Assignments:

##############################################
Managing Open Response Assessment Assignments
##############################################

After you publish an open response assessment (ORA) assignment and learners
start to submit responses and perform assessments, members of the course team
can take the following actions.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1

The following topics provide additional information about open response
assessments.

* :ref:`Best practices for ORA assignments<Best Practices for ORA>`

* :ref:`Components of an ORA assignment<Open Response Assessments Two>`

* :ref:`Instructions for creating an ORA assignment<PA Create an ORA Assignment>`

* :ref:`Viewing metrics and learner responses for released ORA
  assignments<Accessing ORA Assignment Information>`


.. _Access Information for a Specific Learner:

****************************************************
View a Specific Learner's Response and Assessments
****************************************************

You can view the following information about an individual learner's open
response assessment assignment.

* The text of the learner's response, including any files that the learner
  uploaded.
* The peer assessments that other learners performed on the learner's
  response, including feedback on individual criteria and on the overall
  response.
* The peer assessments that the learner performed on other learners'
  responses, including feedback on individual criteria and on the overall
  responses.
* The learner's self assessment.
* The learner's grade for the assignment.
* An override grade provided by course staff.

For more details about accessing information for a specific learner, and for an
example that shows a learner's response with peer assessments, see :ref:`Access
Learner Information`.

To determine whether a learner has received the required number of assessments
from other learners and has completed the required number of assessments for
other learners, refer to the **Graded By** and **Must Grade** values that were
set for the open response assessment assignment in Studio. For more
information about these settings, see :ref:`Specify Step Settings<PA Specify
Step Settings>`.

.. _Access Learner Information:

=======================================
Access a Specific Learner's Information
=======================================

In order to access information about a specific learner's assignment, you
need that learner's username or email address. For more information, see
:ref:`View and download student data`.

To access information about a specific learner, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, and then select **Manage Individual
   Learners**.

#. Enter the learner's username or email address, and then select **Submit**.

   The **Manage Individual Learners** dialog box updates with expandable
   sections for each of the assessment steps in the assignment and other
   actions you can take on the learner's response. Only the types of assessment
   steps (self, peer, or staff) that are included in the assignment are shown.

   If the learner uploaded files along with her response, select **View
   the files associated with this submission** to review or download the files.

#. Select any of the section headings to expand that section.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_ManageIndivLearner.png
   :alt: The expandable sections on the Manage Individual Learners page.
   :width: 500


.. _Perform a Staff Assessment:

*************************************************
Perform Staff Assessments in an ORA Assignment
*************************************************

When a staff assessment is included in an open response assessment assignment,
course team members see a **Grade Available Responses** option at the end of
the assignment in the course, and learners see a **Staff Assessment** step in
their assignment. For information about the possible assessment steps in an
ORA assignment, see :ref:`PA Assessment Steps`.

Submitting a staff assessment has the following results.

* The score that you give a learner in a staff assessment overrides scores from
  any other assessment type in the assignment.

* Peer assessments that are completed before or after your staff assessment
  have no effect on the learner's final assignment grade.

To perform a staff assessment in an assignment, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, and then select **Grade Available
   Responses**.

   In the dialog that opens, the number of available and checked out responses
   is shown. Checked out responses are responses that are currently being
   graded by you or another course team member.

#. Select the **Staff Assessment** heading to open a response that is
   available for grading.

#. Perform an evaluation of the response using the problem's rubric.

#. Select **Submit assessment** to submit the assessment and close the grading
   dialog. Alternatively, select **Submit assessment and continue grading** to
   submit the assessment and immediately grade another submission.

.. _Override a learner assessment grade:

************************************************
Override a Learner's Assessment Grade
************************************************

For any open response assessment, whether or not a staff assessment is already
included, you can override a learner's final grade for the assignment. The
ability to override the final grade can be useful if, for example, a learner's
submission was inappropriately or inadequately graded by peers, or if there are
not enough peer reviewers to complete the required number of peer assessments.

Submitting an override assessment has the following results.

* The score that you give a learner in an override assessment overrides scores
  from any other assessment type in the assignment.

* Any steps that the learner did not complete for the assignment are marked as
  complete.

* Peer assessments that are completed before or after your staff assessment
  have no effect on the learner's final assignment grade.

.. note:: You can perform override assessments more than once on the same
   response, regardless of the due date of the assignment. The learner's
   final grade on the assessment is updated to reflect the most recent staff
   override assessment grade.

Learners who receive override grades for their submissions see a **Staff
Assessment** step in their assignments, where they can view the rubric and any
comments provided in the staff assessments.

=======================================
Perform an Override Assessment
=======================================

In order to perform an override assessment for a learner, you need that
learner's username or email address. For more information, see
:ref:`View and download student data`.

To perform an override assessment, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, then select **Manage Individual
   Learners**.

#. Enter the learner's username or email, then select **Submit**.

   The **Manage Individual Learners** dialog updates with expandable sections
   for each of the assessment steps in the assignment and other actions you
   can take on the learner's response.

#. Select **Submit Assessment Grade Override**.

#. Perform an assessment of the learner's response using the problem's rubric.

#. When you have finished the assessment, select **Submit assessment**.

   The grade that you have given this learner's response becomes the learner's
   final grade on the assignment. Peer assessments are not taken into account
   in calculating the learner's final assignment grade when a staff override
   grade exists.

   Learners who have an override grade for their submission see a **Staff
   Assessment** step in their assignment, where they can view the rubric and
   any comments provided in the staff assessment.

.. note:: Override assessments can be performed more than once on the same
   response, regardless of the due date of the assignment. The learner's
   final grade on the assessment is updated to reflect the most recent staff
   override assessment grade.

.. _Remove a learner response from peer grading:

****************************
Remove a Learner's Response
****************************

In a course that contains assignments with peer assessment steps, learners
might alert you to inappropriate responses that they have seen while
performing peer assessments. In such a situation you can :ref:`locate<Locate a
specific ORA submission>` and remove the response. Doing so removes the
response so that it is no longer shown to other learners for peer assessment.

.. note:: Removing a learner's response is an irreversible action.

When you remove a response, the response is immediately taken out of the pool
of submissions available for peer assessment. If the inappropriate response has
already been sent to other learners for peer assessment, it is also removed
from their queues. However, if any learner has already graded the inappropriate
response, it is counted as one of the submissions they have graded.

.. note:: After you remove an inappropriate response, you can decide whether
   the learner who submitted that response is allowed to submit a replacement
   response.

   If you do not want to allow the learner to submit a replacement response,
   you do not need to take any additional action. The learner receives a grade
   of zero for the entire submission.

   To allow the learner to resubmit a response for a cancelled submission, you
   must :ref:`delete the learner's state<delete_state>` for the problem.

To remove a submitted response, follow these steps.

#. Identify the learner who submitted the inappropriate response by following
   the steps in the :ref:`Locate a specific ORA submission` topic.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment that contains the submission you want to remove.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, and then select **Manage Individual
   Learners**.

#. Enter the learner's username or email, and then select **Submit**.

   The **Manage Individual Learners** dialog updates with expandable sections
   for each of the assessment steps in the assignment and other actions you
   can take on the learner's response.

#. Select **Remove Submission from Peer Grading**.

#. Enter a comment to explain the removal. The learner sees this comment
   when she views her response in the open response assessment problem.

   .. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_RemoveSubmission.png
      :alt: Dialog allowing comments to be entered when removing a learner
       submission.
      :width: 500

#. Select **Remove submission**.

   The inappropriate submission is permanently removed from peer assessment.
   Removed submissions are also removed from the list of Top Responses if they
   were previously listed.

#. Optionally, delete the learner's state for the problem. This step allows the
   learner to submit another response. For more information, see
   :ref:`delete_state`.

When you access :ref:`this learner's information<Access Learner Information>`
again by selecting **Manage Individual Learners**, instead of the response,
you see a note showing the date and time that the submission was removed, and
the comments that you entered.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_StaffViewCancelledResponse.png
   :alt: In Manage Individual Learners, the date, time and comment for removal
    of a learner response is shown instead of the original response.
   :width: 500

When the learner views the assignment in the course, she sees that all steps in
the assignment have a status of "Cancelled". Under **Your Response**, instead
of the text of their response, she sees the date and time that their response
was cancelled, and the comments relating to the removal of their submission.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_LearnerViewCancelledResponse.png
   :alt: In a learner's view of the assignment, all steps have a status of
    Cancelled, and the learner sees the date, time and comment given for the
    removal of his submission.
   :width: 500

.. _Locate a specific ORA submission:

*************************************************
Locate a Specific Submission in an ORA Assignment
*************************************************

If you are alerted to an inappropriate ORA submission that you want to cancel
and :ref:`remove from peer assessment<Remove a learner response from peer
grading>`, locate the specific submission by following these steps.

#. Ask the person who reported the incident to send you a sample of text from
   the inappropriate response.

#. :ref:`Generate an ORA data report<Generate ORA Report>`.

#. Search the report for text that matches the sample text from the
   inappropriate response.

#. From any matching entries in the spreadsheet, locate the username of the
   learner who posted the submission.

#. Make a note of the username, and follow the steps to :ref:`remove a learner
   response from peer grading<Remove a learner response from peer grading>`.

Commit message:

Add note that overrides not allowed after grade freeze (#1901)
* Add updated note about overrides and grade freezes

* Add VS Code to .gitignore

en_us/shared/subsections/open_response_assessments/Manage_ORA_Assignment.rst, after:

.. _Managing ORA Assignments:

##############################################
Managing Open Response Assessment Assignments
##############################################

After you publish an open response assessment (ORA) assignment and learners
start to submit responses and perform assessments, members of the course team
can take the following actions.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1

The following topics provide additional information about open response
assessments.

* :ref:`Best practices for ORA assignments<Best Practices for ORA>`

* :ref:`Components of an ORA assignment<Open Response Assessments Two>`

* :ref:`Instructions for creating an ORA assignment<PA Create an ORA Assignment>`

* :ref:`Viewing metrics and learner responses for released ORA
  assignments<Accessing ORA Assignment Information>`


.. _Access Information for a Specific Learner:

****************************************************
View a Specific Learner's Response and Assessments
****************************************************

You can view the following information about an individual learner's open
response assessment assignment.

* The text of the learner's response, including any files that the learner
  uploaded.
* The peer assessments that other learners performed on the learner's
  response, including feedback on individual criteria and on the overall
  response.
* The peer assessments that the learner performed on other learners'
  responses, including feedback on individual criteria and on the overall
  responses.
* The learner's self assessment.
* The learner's grade for the assignment.
* An override grade provided by course staff.

For more details about accessing information for a specific learner, and for an
example that shows a learner's response with peer assessments, see :ref:`Access
Learner Information`.

To determine whether a learner has received the required number of assessments
from other learners and has completed the required number of assessments for
other learners, refer to the **Graded By** and **Must Grade** values that were
set for the open response assessment assignment in Studio. For more
information about these settings, see :ref:`Specify Step Settings<PA Specify
Step Settings>`.

.. _Access Learner Information:

=======================================
Access a Specific Learner's Information
=======================================

In order to access information about a specific learner's assignment, you
need that learner's username or email address. For more information, see
:ref:`View and download student data`.

To access information about a specific learner, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, and then select **Manage Individual
   Learners**.

#. Enter the learner's username or email address, and then select **Submit**.

   The **Manage Individual Learners** dialog box updates with expandable
   sections for each of the assessment steps in the assignment and other
   actions you can take on the learner's response. Only the types of assessment
   steps (self, peer, or staff) that are included in the assignment are shown.

   If the learner uploaded files along with her response, select **View
   the files associated with this submission** to review or download the files.

#. Select any of the section headings to expand that section.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_ManageIndivLearner.png
   :alt: The expandable sections on the Manage Individual Learners page.
   :width: 500


.. _Perform a Staff Assessment:

*************************************************
Perform Staff Assessments in an ORA Assignment
*************************************************

When a staff assessment is included in an open response assessment assignment,
course team members see a **Grade Available Responses** option at the end of
the assignment in the course, and learners see a **Staff Assessment** step in
their assignment. For information about the possible assessment steps in an
ORA assignment, see :ref:`PA Assessment Steps`.

Submitting a staff assessment has the following results.

* The score that you give a learner in a staff assessment overrides scores from
  any other assessment type in the assignment.

* Peer assessments that are completed before or after your staff assessment
  have no effect on the learner's final assignment grade.

To perform a staff assessment in an assignment, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, and then select **Grade Available
   Responses**.

   In the dialog that opens, the number of available and checked out responses
   is shown. Checked out responses are responses that are currently being
   graded by you or another course team member.

#. Select the **Staff Assessment** heading to open a response that is
   available for grading.

#. Perform an evaluation of the response using the problem's rubric.

#. Select **Submit assessment** to submit the assessment and close the grading
   dialog. Alternatively, select **Submit assessment and continue grading** to
   submit the assessment and immediately grade another submission.

.. _Override a learner assessment grade:

************************************************
Override a Learner's Assessment Grade
************************************************

For any open response assessment, whether or not a staff assessment is already
included, you can override a learner's final grade for the assignment. The
ability to override the final grade can be useful if, for example, a learner's
submission was inappropriately or inadequately graded by peers, or if there are
not enough peer reviewers to complete the required number of peer assessments.

Submitting an override assessment has the following results.

* The score that you give a learner in an override assessment overrides scores
  from any other assessment type in the assignment.

* Any steps that the learner did not complete for the assignment are marked as
  complete.

* Peer assessments that are completed before or after your staff assessment
  have no effect on the learner's final assignment grade.

.. note:: You can perform override assessments more than once on the same
   response, regardless of the due date of the assignment. The learner's
   final grade on the assessment is updated to reflect the most recent staff
   override assessment grade.

   Once grades are frozen 30 days after the course end date, you will no longer
   be able to perform override assessments for learners.

Learners who receive override grades for their submissions see a **Staff
Assessment** step in their assignments, where they can view the rubric and any
comments provided in the staff assessments.

=======================================
Perform an Override Assessment
=======================================

In order to perform an override assessment for a learner, you need that
learner's username or email address. For more information, see
:ref:`View and download student data`.

To perform an override assessment, follow these steps.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, then select **Manage Individual
   Learners**.

#. Enter the learner's username or email, then select **Submit**.

   The **Manage Individual Learners** dialog updates with expandable sections
   for each of the assessment steps in the assignment and other actions you
   can take on the learner's response.

#. Select **Submit Assessment Grade Override**.

#. Perform an assessment of the learner's response using the problem's rubric.

#. When you have finished the assessment, select **Submit assessment**.

   The grade that you have given this learner's response becomes the learner's
   final grade on the assignment. Peer assessments are not taken into account
   in calculating the learner's final assignment grade when a staff override
   grade exists.

   Learners who have an override grade for their submission see a **Staff
   Assessment** step in their assignment, where they can view the rubric and
   any comments provided in the staff assessment.

.. note:: Override assessments can be performed more than once on the same
   response, regardless of the due date of the assignment. The learner's
   final grade on the assessment is updated to reflect the most recent staff
   override assessment grade.

.. _Remove a learner response from peer grading:

****************************
Remove a Learner's Response
****************************

In a course that contains assignments with peer assessment steps, learners
might alert you to inappropriate responses that they have seen while
performing peer assessments. In such a situation you can :ref:`locate<Locate a
specific ORA submission>` and remove the response. Doing so removes the
response so that it is no longer shown to other learners for peer assessment.

.. note:: Removing a learner's response is an irreversible action.

When you remove a response, the response is immediately taken out of the pool
of submissions available for peer assessment. If the inappropriate response has
already been sent to other learners for peer assessment, it is also removed
from their queues. However, if any learner has already graded the inappropriate
response, it is counted as one of the submissions they have graded.

.. note:: After you remove an inappropriate response, you can decide whether
   the learner who submitted that response is allowed to submit a replacement
   response.

   If you do not want to allow the learner to submit a replacement response,
   you do not need to take any additional action. The learner receives a grade
   of zero for the entire submission.

   To allow the learner to resubmit a response for a cancelled submission, you
   must :ref:`delete the learner's state<delete_state>` for the problem.

To remove a submitted response, follow these steps.

#. Identify the learner who submitted the inappropriate response by following
   the steps in the :ref:`Locate a specific ORA submission` topic.

#. View the live version of your course in the LMS, and then go to the ORA
   assignment that contains the submission you want to remove.

#. Scroll to the end of the problem, and then select **Manage Individual
   Learners**.

#. Enter the learner's username or email, and then select **Submit**.

   The **Manage Individual Learners** dialog updates with expandable sections
   for each of the assessment steps in the assignment and other actions you
   can take on the learner's response.

#. Select **Remove Submission from Peer Grading**.

#. Enter a comment to explain the removal. The learner sees this comment
   when she views her response in the open response assessment problem.

   .. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_RemoveSubmission.png
      :alt: Dialog allowing comments to be entered when removing a learner
       submission.
      :width: 500

#. Select **Remove submission**.

   The inappropriate submission is permanently removed from peer assessment.
   Removed submissions are also removed from the list of Top Responses if they
   were previously listed.

#. Optionally, delete the learner's state for the problem. This step allows the
   learner to submit another response. For more information, see
   :ref:`delete_state`.

When you access :ref:`this learner's information<Access Learner Information>`
again by selecting **Manage Individual Learners**, instead of the response,
you see a note showing the date and time that the submission was removed, and
the comments that you entered.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_StaffViewCancelledResponse.png
   :alt: In Manage Individual Learners, the date, time and comment for removal
    of a learner response is shown instead of the original response.
   :width: 500

When the learner views the assignment in the course, she sees that all steps in
the assignment have a status of "Cancelled". Under **Your Response**, instead
of the text of their response, she sees the date and time that their response
was cancelled, and the comments relating to the removal of their submission.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/ORA_LearnerViewCancelledResponse.png
   :alt: In a learner's view of the assignment, all steps have a status of
    Cancelled, and the learner sees the date, time and comment given for the
    removal of his submission.
   :width: 500

.. _Locate a specific ORA submission:

*************************************************
Locate a Specific Submission in an ORA Assignment
*************************************************

If you are alerted to an inappropriate ORA submission that you want to cancel
and :ref:`remove from peer assessment<Remove a learner response from peer
grading>`, locate the specific submission by following these steps.

#. Ask the person who reported the incident to send you a sample of text from
   the inappropriate response.

#. :ref:`Generate an ORA data report<Generate ORA Report>`.

#. Search the report for text that matches the sample text from the
   inappropriate response.

#. From any matching entries in the spreadsheet, locate the username of the
   learner who posted the submission.

#. Make a note of the username, and follow the steps to :ref:`remove a learner
   response from peer grading<Remove a learner response from peer grading>`.
