{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \

\b Per-Problem Performance Data
\b0 \
\
EdX Insights now makes it easier to see how many learners did well on assignments or on ungraded problems in course sections. In the performance graphs for graded content and ungraded problems, the number of correct and incorrect submissions received is now averaged by the number of problems included in each assignment type or assignment.\
\
Before this change was made, edX Insights presented aggregated data. In courses that include differing numbers of problems in each assignment, the resulting graph could be difficult to interpret. \
\
For example, the first homework assignment in a course has four problems, the second has six problems, the third has five problems, and so on. The graph of the homework assignment submissions for the course before this change appeared as follows. \
\
all_homework_before.png\
\
Now, with the change to average submissions by the number of problems in each assignment, the graph for the same course appears as follows.\
\
all_homework_after.png\
\
\

\b All Problem Parts Now Combined
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 Learner submissions for problems that have more than one part are now counted only once, for the entire problem, rather than once for each part of the problem. In courses that include problems with differing numbers of questions, or parts, in each problem, the resulting graph could be difficult to interpret. \
\
For example, a course has an assignment that includes some problems with four parts, and other problems with only one part. The graph of the problem submissions for the assignment before this change appeared as follows. \
\
problem_parts_before.png\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Now, with submissions for each problem counted once, the graph for the same assignment in the course appears as follows.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 problem_parts_after.png\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 \
As before\'85\
}