.. _Cohorts Overview:

#############################
Using Cohorts in Your Courses
#############################

This section provides an introduction to using cohorts.

.. contents::
  :local:
  :depth: 1

*********
Overview
*********

To create smaller communities in your course, or design different
course experiences for different groups of learners, you can :ref:`set up
cohorts<Enabling and Configuring Cohorts>` in your course.

In discussion topics that are divided by cohort, learners can also communicate
and share experiences privately within the cohort that they are assigned to.
Cohort-specific discussion opportunities can help learners develop a sense of
community, provide specialized experiences, and encourage deeper, more
meaningful course involvement.

If you use cohorts in your course, you define a set of cohorts that reflect
communities of learners, then select a strategy for :ref:`assigning learners to
cohorts<Options for Assigning Learners to Cohorts>`.

.. note::
   * Every learner must be assigned to a cohort. This ensures that
     every learner has the ability to read and contribute to course discussion
     topics.

   * Each learner can be in one and only one cohort.

   To provide learners with a consistent experience throughout the course run,
   do not change cohort configuration or a learner's cohort assignment after
   your course begins.

For more information about using cohorts, see the following topics.

* :ref:`Enabling and Configuring Cohorts`

* :ref:`Setting Up Discussions in Courses with Cohorts<Set up Discussions in
  Cohorted Courses>`

* :ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`

For information about discussions in general, see :ref:`Discussions`.

.. _Options for Assigning Learners to Cohorts:

*****************************************
Options for Assigning Learners to Cohorts
*****************************************

Learners are assigned to cohorts either automatically or manually, depending on
the types of cohorts that you create. Manual cohorts do not have
learners assigned to them unless you manually add learners. Automatic cohorts
have learners randomly assigned to them if learners do not belong to any cohort
by the time they access the course content (including the course **Discussion**
page or content-specific discussion topics). If you have not created any
automated cohorts by the time learners access course content, a default
automated cohort is created and used for automatic assignment, so that no
learner in the course is without a cohort.

Determine the basic strategy that you will use to create cohorts. An automated
assignment strategy means that you create cohorts to which learners are
assigned automatically and randomly. A manual assignment strategy means that
you create cohorts to which learners are assigned only when you or your course
team manually adds them. You can use a hybrid assignment method by creating a
combination of automated and manual cohorts. Typically, your purpose in
including the cohort feature determines which assignment option you use for
your course.

.. note:: You can add learners manually to any cohort, whether it was created
   as an automated cohort or a manual cohort.

.. note:: Although you can change the assignment method of a cohort at any time
   after you create it, you should have a cohort assignment strategy in mind as
   you design your course, and only make changes to cohorts while the course is
   running if absolutely necessary. Be aware of the implications of changing
   cohort configuration while your course is running. For more information, see
   :ref:`Altering Cohort Configuration`. In general, to provide learners with a
   consistent experience throughout the course run, do not change cohort
   configuration or a learner's cohort assignment after your course begins.

For more information about strategies for assigning learners to cohorts, see
the following topics.

* :ref:`All Automated Assignment`

* :ref:`All Manual Assignment`

* :ref:`Hybrid Assignment`

* :ref:`Default Cohort Group`

.. _All Automated Assignment:

========================================================
Automated Assignment: Making MOOC Discussions Manageable
========================================================

In very large courses, the number of posts that are made to course discussion
topics can make for a daunting amount of daily reading. In such courses,
dividing the enrollees into separate cohorts makes the volume of posts,
responses, and comments by the members of each cohort more manageable, and is
more likely to foster community feeling.

If you use the automated assignment strategy, you create several "auto"
(automated) cohorts. Learners are automatically and randomly assigned to one of
the auto cohorts when they first view any course content, including the course
**Discussion** page or content-specific discussion topics. In this way, each
learner in your course is assigned to a cohort; no learner is unassigned.

The following guidelines are based on the experiences of MOOC teams that have
used cohorts in this way. They are suggested to help you determine how many
automated cohorts to define for your course.

* Each cohort should be large enough to inspire lively participation and
  diverse points of view, but small enough to allow a sense of community to
  develop. Cohorts formed by random assignment tend to be successful if they
  include between 200 and 500 members.

* For every 10,000 students who enroll, approximately 200 to 400 students
  remain active in the discussions throughout the course run.

* Divide the estimated total enrollment of the course run by 10,000.

* Use the result as the number of automated cohorts to create.

For example, two days before it starts, a course has an enrollment of 80,000
students. To create small communities within the discussions, the course team
enables cohorts and then creates eight automated cohorts. As learners visit the
**Discussion** page or view the course content, they are randomly assigned to
one of the eight cohorts. In divided discussion topics, learners read and
respond only to contributions made by other members of the same cohort.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Automated Assignment
Strategy`.

.. _All Manual Assignment:

=====================================================
Manual Assignment: Grouping by Common Characteristics
=====================================================

In SPOCs and other courses with small- to medium-sized enrollments, known
existing commonalities can be used to identify cohorts. An example is a course
that enrolls learners from different companies or with different educational
backgrounds, or members of alumni or parent groups. When learners are assigned
to cohorts on the basis of a characteristic that they share, they can privately
discuss applications for what they are learning and explore resources and ideas
that are of particular interest.

To implement this assignment strategy, you identify the "real-world" cohorts
that your learners already belong to. You enable cohorts and then create
"manual" cohorts to represent each of the real-world cohorts. You then manually
assign each learner to a cohort. Every learner who enrolls, including those who
enroll after the course starts, must be assigned to a cohort.

.. note:: To ensure that every learner is assigned to a cohort, you can set up
   a single automated cohort, as described for the :ref:`hybrid assignment
   strategy<Hybrid Assignment>`. If you do not create an automated cohort, the
   system automatically creates a :ref:`default cohort<Default Cohort Group>`
   and assigns learners to it if necessary.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Manual Assignment Strategy`.

.. _Hybrid Assignment:

=============================================================
Hybrid Assignment: Accommodating Small Groups Within a Course
=============================================================

For some courses, the manual assignment strategy is not feasible to execute,
and the automated assignment strategy does not accommodate existing cohorts in
the student body. The enrollment might be too large to complete manual
assignments effectively, or only some of the learners might have strong
defining characteristics among an otherwise diverse student body. For these
courses, you can use a hybrid of the two strategies to implement cohorts.

An example is a course that enrolls members of an alumni association. The
alumni want an opportunity to have private interactions, so manual assignment
of those learners to a cohort makes sense. For other learners in the class,
manual assignment is not needed: you can create one or more automated cohorts
for the remaining learners in the course.

Before you implement the hybrid strategy, you identify the characteristics that
define existing cohorts in the student body. You also decide whether you want
the remaining learners in the course to be divided into their own, similarly-
sized cohorts, or if you want them all to be in just one other cohort.

After you enable cohorts, you create a manual cohort for each student group
that you identified. You manually assign learners who belong to each group to
the corresponding cohort. You also set up automated cohorts for the other
learners in the course, or rely on the default automated cohort. Any learners
who are not assigned to a manual cohort are automatically assigned to one of
the automated cohorts or to the default cohort when they first view any course
content, including the course **Discussion** page or content-specific
discussion topics. For best results when you use this strategy, you should
complete all manual cohort assignments before the course starts and before
learners begin viewing course content and discussion topics.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Automated Assignment
Strategy` and :ref:`Implementing the Manual Assignment Strategy`.

.. _Default Cohort Group:

===========================================================
Ensuring That All Learners Are Assigned: The Default Cohort
===========================================================

If you enable cohorts in your course, all learners must be assigned to a
cohort. To ensure that there are no learners in the course without a cohort,
the system automatically creates a default cohort and assigns learners to it if
necessary.

The default cohort is created only if you have not created at least one
automated assignment cohort in your course by the time that the first learner
accesses your course content. Learners who have not been manually assigned to a
cohort when they access the course content are automatically assigned to the
default cohort.

Learners who are in the default cohort see a cohort name of "Default Group" in
discussion posts. If you want learners to see a different name for the default
cohort, you can change its name. For details about renaming cohorts, see
:ref:`Renaming a Cohort`.

.. image:: ../../../../shared/images/post_visible_default.png
 :alt: A discussion topic post with "This post is visible to Default Group"
       above the title.
 :width: 600

You can check the :ref:`learner profile information report<View and download
student data>` for your course to see if any learners are assigned to the
default cohort, and change their cohort assignments. Note, however, that in
divided discussion topics learners can only see posts by members of their
currently assigned cohort: when a learner is reassigned, posts that he
previously saw will seem to have "disappeared". To avoid negatively affecting
the learner experience, any cohort assignment changes should be done as early
in the course run as possible, so that learners' views of discussion posts and
contributions remain consistent over time.
