###################################
May 15, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of May 15, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of changes.


*************
edX Studio
*************

* A problem that prevented you from hiding the Wiki in the list of Pages when
  using Firefox is resolved. (STUD-1581)

* A problem that prevented you from importing a course created on edx.org into
  edX Edge is resolved. (STUD-1599)

* All text in the Video component UI has been updated for clarity. (DOC-206)

***************************************
edX Learning Management System
***************************************

* The Instructor Dashboard that appears to course teams by default in the
  LMS has changed. The Instructor Dashboard that appears when you click
  **Instructor** is now the "New Beta" dashboard. The "Standard" dashboard
  remains available; a button click is required to access it. The two dashboard
  versions are also relabeled in this release. The version that was previously
  identified as the "New Beta Dashboard" is now labeled "Instructor Dashboard",
  and the version previously identified as the "Standard Dashboard" is now
  labeled "Legacy Dashboard". (LMS-1296)


* Previously, when a student clicked **Run Code** for a MatLab problem, the
  entire page was reloaded. This issue has been resolved so that now only the
  MatLab problem elements are reloaded. (LMS-2505)


****************
edX Analytics
****************

* There is a new event tracking API for instrumenting events to capture user
  actions and other point-in-time activities in Studio and the edX LMS. See
  Analytics for more information.

