###################################
July 21, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of July 21,
2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of changes.

***************************************
edX Studio
***************************************

* In edX Studio, URL formats have changed. If you previously bookmarked a page
  in Studio, that bookmark will no longer work. You must update the URL.

  Following is a sample of this format change:

  * Old URL: https://studio.edx.org/unit/location:MITx+7.00x+2013_SOND+vertical+Coming_Soon_Explore_a_Protein

  * New URL:
    https://studio.edx.org/unit/i4x://MITx/7.00x/vertical/Coming_Soon_Explore_a_Protein
  
  This change does not affect student-visible URLs.

* In open response assessments, you can now create assignments that allow students to upload an image file as well as write a text response. For more information, see Creating Peer Assessments.

* In open response assessments, you can now create a criterion that includes a field for comments, but no options. For more information, see Creating Peer Assessments.

* In some cases, deleting a unit from a subsection caused server errors. This bug has been fixed. (STUD-1962)

***************************************
edX Learning Management System
***************************************
   
* The Instructor Dashboard **Analytics** tab now includes the number of students who interacted with the course by visiting pages, playing videos, contributing to discussions, submitting answers to problems, or completing other course activites. The active student count is updated each week.

* Some links on the right side of the course wiki appeared to be disabled. This has been fixed. (LMS-1308)

* Forum posts created by anonymous users appeared with a "by Staff" label. This bug has been fixed. (FOR-156)

* When a student selected **Post anonymously to classmates** check box in the forums, the post appeared as anonymous to both students and staff. This bug has been fixed. (FOR-122)

