###################################
October 23, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
October 23, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of changes.

*******************************
edX Website
*******************************

Visitors to the edx.org website can now search for courses by name, school,
or subject. Search results can be further refined by selecting course
availability (for example, Current, Starting Soon, Archived) and type (for
example, Verified, High School, Professional Education).

*******************************
edX Course Discussion
*******************************

* When you enter a search term on the **Discussion** page, the search starts
  either when you click the magnifying glass icon or press the Enter key.
  Previously, only use of the Enter key started the search. (TNL-526)

* After you mark a response to a question post as the correct answer, a message
  that describes this action is added to the response. The hyperlinked username
  in this message now correctly opens a new page showing your contributions to
  the course discussion. (TNL-188)

*************
edX Studio
*************

* The protein builder tool now correctly uses font sizing set by user browser
  preferences. (TNL-256)
  
**************************
edX Data & Analytics
**************************

* For compatibility with database import tools, a field in the child_render
  event was renamed. The event member field is now named child_id
  instead of child-id.
