###################################
November 5, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
November 5, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of changes.

****************************************
edX Release Announcements Mailing List
****************************************

These edX Course Staff Release Notes are always available and are updated with
each release of the edX Platform on `edx.org`_ and `edX Edge`_.

You can also sign up for the `edX Release Announcements mailing list`_ to get
an email message when we update the edX Course Staff Release Notes.


*************
edX Studio
*************

* The course outline interface has been enhanced. When you are working with
  units, the unit currently being viewed or edited is highlighted in the course
  outline panel on the right. (TNL-291)
  
******************************
edX Learning Management System
******************************

* For courses using content experiments, the edX platform now supports problem
  components in graded subsections and grade exports. (TNL-41)
  
**************************
edX Insights
**************************

* Each page of the edX Insights user interface now includes a link to context-
  sensitive help. Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page to access
  relevant sections of the *Using edX Insights* guide. You can also download the
  entire guide as a PDF.

* In edX Insights, course authors can now view demographic data for students
  enrolled in their courses. Self-reported age, education, and gender data is
  available to view as histograms, metrics, and in tables, and is also available
  for download in .csv format.

**************************
edX Documentation
**************************

The following documentation is available:

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_

  Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Studio
  user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
  download the entire guide as a PDF.

  Recent changes include:

  * In `Example Messages to Students`_, added a new email template that
    course teams can use to remind students that the final date to register for
    a verified certificate is approaching.

  * In `Export a Course`_, added cautions to make course teams aware that when
    courses are exported, some of the exported data includes sensitive
    information that should not be shared, such as MATLAB API keys and LTI
    passports.

  * Removed the warning in `Add Content Experiments to Your Course`_ that grade
    exports did not work with courses using content experiments. For courses
    using content experiments, the edX platform now supports problem components
    in graded subsections and grade exports.

.. adding line for space


* `Using edX Insights`_

  Recent changes include:

  * Added context-sensitive Help on each page of the edX Insights user
    interface. Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page to access
    relevant sections of this guide.

.. adding line for space    
    
* `EdX Guide for Students`_

  Recent changes include:

  * Updates to reflect fact that course start times as well as dates are now shown
    for courses.

.. adding line for space

* `Creating Peer Assessments`_

* `edX Research Guide`_
  
* `edX Platform Developer's Guide`_

* `edX XBlock Documentation`_

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_

* `edX Open Learning XML Guide`_
  
* `edX Platform API`_


**************************
Other edX Resources
**************************

You can access the `edX Status`_ page to get an up-to-date status for all
services on edx.org and edX Edge. The page also includes the Twitter feed for
@edXstatus, which the edX Operations team uses to post updates.

You can access the public `edX roadmap`_ for details about the currently
planned product direction.

.. include:: ../links.rst