###################################
November 19, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
November 19, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of
changes.

****************************************
edX Release Announcements Mailing List
****************************************

These edX Course Staff Release Notes are always available and are updated with
each release of the edX Platform on `edx.org`_ and `edX Edge`_.

You can also sign up for the `edX Release Announcements mailing list`_ to get
an email message when we update the edX Course Staff Release Notes.

*************
edX Studio
*************

* To correct problems with the appearance of non-ASCII characters in Studio,
  additional font files were installed. (TNL-395)
  
******************************
edX Learning Management System
******************************

* Course demographic data is no longer available on the Analytics page of the
  Instructor Dashboard. For charts, metrics, and reports of student
  demographics, visit `edX Insights`_.


**************************
Coming Soon
**************************

A new page on the edx.org site will soon welcome visitors who are not logged in
when they try to enroll in a course. The new page will help visitors identify
themselves as either new or returning users, and then present fields to collect
either registration or login information as appropriate.

**************************
edX Documentation
**************************

The following documentation is available:

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_

  Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Studio
  user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
  download the entire guide as a PDF.

  Recent changes include:

  * The addition of the `Using the Course Wiki`_ section.

  * A change in the `Working with Video Components`_ chapter to indicate that
    transcripts are required for videos.

  * Updates to the `Student Data`_ chapter to remove descriptions of the level
    of education and gender distributions.

.. adding line for space

* `Using edX Insights`_
    
* `EdX Guide for Students`_

* `Creating Peer Assessments`_

* `edX Research Guide`_

  Recent changes include:

    * Updates to the values reported in the ``student_courseenrollment.mode``
      column.

* `edX Platform Developer's Guide`_

* `edX XBlock Documentation`_

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_

* `edX Open Learning XML Guide`_
  
* `edX Platform API`_

**************************
Other edX Resources
**************************

You can access the `edX Status`_ page to get an up-to-date status for all
services on edx.org and edX Edge. The page also includes the Twitter feed for
@edXstatus, which the edX Operations team uses to post updates.

You can access the public `edX roadmap`_ for details about the currently
planned product direction.

.. include:: ../links.rst