###################################
November 13, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
November 13, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of changes.

****************************************
edX Release Announcements Mailing List
****************************************

These edX Course Staff Release Notes are always available and are updated with
each release of the edX Platform on `edx.org`_ and `edX Edge`_.

You can also sign up for the `edX Release Announcements mailing list`_ to get
an email message when we update the edX Course Staff Release Notes.


*************
edX Studio
*************

* The **Course Export** page now includes a warning that exported data includes
  sensitive information such as MATLAB API keys and LTI passports. (DOC-1138)
  
******************************
edX Learning Management System
******************************

* When a problem contained a link to courseware, users who followed the link
  received a "page not found" error. This problem has been fixed. (TNL-729)

* When a checkbox problem had no correct answer options, students who correctly
  selected none of the answer options and clicked **Check** saw a green check
  mark, but did not receive points for completing the problem correctly. This
  problem has been fixed. (TNL-765)

* A problem with the spacing in the **Discussion** page search box in Arabic has
  been fixed. (OSPR-183)
  
**************************
edX Documentation
**************************

The following documentation is available:

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_

  Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Studio
  user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
  download the entire guide as a PDF.

  Recent changes include:

  * Added a cautionary note to `Add a Content Experiment in OLX`_ explaining
    that content experiments can only be defined at the unit level. (DOC-1058
    and DOC-1161)

  * Added reset information to the `Show Answer`_ section. (DOC-1146)

.. adding line for space


* `Using edX Insights`_

  * Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Insights
    user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
    download the entire guide as a PDF.

.. adding line for space    
    
* `EdX Guide for Students`_

  Recent changes include:

  * Added the `edX Video Player`_ section.

  * Updated the scientific notation information and added calculator information
    to the `Math Formatting`_ topic.

.. adding line for space

* `Creating Peer Assessments`_

* `edX Research Guide`_
  
* `edX Platform Developer's Guide`_

  Recent changes include:

    * Created the `edX Modulestores`_ section and added the `Split Mongo
      Modulestore`_ chapter.

* `edX XBlock Documentation`_

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_

* `edX Open Learning XML Guide`_
  
* `edX Platform API`_


**************************
Other edX Resources
**************************

You can access the `edX Status`_ page to get an up-to-date status for all
services on edx.org and edX Edge. The page also includes the Twitter feed for
@edXstatus, which the edX Operations team uses to post updates.

You can access the public `edX roadmap`_ for details about the currently
planned product direction.

.. include:: ../links.rst