###################################
December 9, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
December 9, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of
changes.


******************************
edX Resources
******************************

* A new version of the edX101 course has been released on edx.org. This high-level
  overview of the course creation and delivery process includes guidance for
  adapting traditional courses to the edX platform and introduces the basic
  course components and problem types that course authors can use. 

*************
edX Studio
*************

* When users exported a course that contained a draft of an open response
  assessment problem, they received an error message. This problem has been
  fixed. (PLAT-249)

  
******************************
edX Learning Management System
******************************

* On the Instructor Dashboard, some tooltips appeared far away from the
  associated controls. This problem has been fixed. (TNL-558)

* In the course discussions, the **Vote** button was still available even when
  the thread was closed. This problem has been fixed. (TNL-152)

******************************
edX Insights
******************************

* The enrollment activity chart, metrics, and report are now available for
  courses created in Studio before December 4, 2013. EdX Insights now reports
  enrollment data for the affected courses beginning with November 11, 2013.

* The enrollment activity chart is now a stacked area chart that indicates the
  total number of enrolled learners on a particular date. For courses that offer
  more than one enrollment option or track, the enrollment activity chart uses
  different colors to represent the number of students who are enrolled with
  each option.

**************************
Coming Soon
**************************

Students who enroll in a verified course must currently complete the ID
verification process before completing the payment process. Soon, the ID
verification and payment processes will be separate.
