###################################
December 3, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
December 3, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of
changes.

****************************************
edX Release Announcements Mailing List
****************************************

These edX Course Staff Release Notes are always available and are updated with
each release of the edX Platform on `edx.org`_ and `edX Edge`_.

You can also sign up for the `edX Release Announcements mailing list`_ to get
an email message when we update the edX Course Staff Release Notes.

*************
edX Studio
*************

* When you changed one course time, other course times were incorrectly
  changed. This problem is resolved. (TNL-772)

  
******************************
edX Learning Management System
******************************

* Long component titles were not properly displayed in hover text and required
  horizontal scrolling. This problem is resolved. (TNL-406)

* In Firefox browsers, the video player HD button did not appear. This problem
  is resolved. (TNL-536)


**************************
Coming Soon
**************************

A new page on the edx.org site will soon welcome visitors who are not logged in
when they try to enroll in a course. The new page will help visitors identify
themselves as either new or returning users, and then present fields to collect
either registration or login information as appropriate.

**************************
edX Documentation
**************************

The following documentation is available:

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_

  Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Studio
  user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
  download the entire guide as a PDF.

  Recent changes include:

  * Updated the `compression specifications`_ for video files.
  
  * Added an email template for `Weekly Highlights`_ message to students.

.. adding line for space

* `Using edX Insights`_
  
  Recent changes include:

  * Expanded the section on possible `error conditions`_.
  
  * Added information about accessing enrollment history for all courses. See
    `Enrollment Activity`_ and `Computation Reference`_.

.. adding line for space

* `EdX Guide for Students`_
  
  Recent changes include:

  * Updated information about superscripts and subscripts in `Entering
    Mathematical and Scientific Expressions`_.

.. adding line for space

* `Creating Peer Assessments`_

* `edX Research Guide`_

  Recent changes include:

  * Expanded the background information on content experiments in `Testing
    Events for Content Experiments`_.

.. adding line for space

* `edX Platform Developer's Guide`_

* `edX XBlock Documentation`_

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_

* `edX Open Learning XML Guide`_

  Recent changes include:

  * Added the `Example of OLX for a Studio Course`_ section.

.. adding line for space
  
* `edX Platform API`_

**************************
Other edX Resources
**************************

You can access the `edX Status`_ page to get an up-to-date status for all
services on edx.org and edX Edge. The page also includes the Twitter feed for
@edXstatus, which the edX Operations team uses to post updates.

You can access the public `edX roadmap`_ for details about the currently
planned product direction.

.. include:: ../links.rst