###################################
December 16, 2014
###################################

The following information reflects what is new in the edX Platform as of
December 16, 2014. See previous pages in this document for a history of
changes.

****************************************
edX Release Announcements Mailing List
****************************************

These edX Course Staff Release Notes are always available and are updated with
each release of the edX Platform on `edx.org`_ and `edX Edge`_.

You can also sign up for the `edX Release Announcements mailing list`_ to get
an email message when we update the edX Course Staff Release Notes.

*************
edX Studio
*************

* The size of files that you can upload in the **Files & Uploads** page is now
  limited to 10 MB. If you try to upload a file larger than 10 MB, Studio shows
  a message that the file is too large and could not be uploaded.

* A problem that caused assignment weights in the grading policy to display
  incorrectly is resolved. (TNL-884)
  
******************************
edX Learning Management System
******************************

* Course staff can now assign students to cohorts by uploading a CSV file of
  students and their cohort assignments. See `Assign Students to Cohort Groups
  by Uploading a CSV File`_ for more information. (TNL-735)

**************************
Coming Soon
**************************

Students who enroll in a verified course must currently complete the ID
verification process before completing the payment process. Soon, students will
be able to complete the payment process without completing the verification
process, and vice versa.

**************************
edX Documentation
**************************

The following documentation is available:

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_

  Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Studio
  user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
  download the entire guide as a PDF.

.. adding line for space

* `EdX Guide for Students`_
  
  Recent changes include:

  * Added `The edX Mobile App`_ topic.

.. adding line for space

* `Using edX Insights`_
   
  Click **Help** in the upper-right corner of any page in the edX Insights
  user interface to access relevant sections of this guide. You can also
  download the entire guide as a PDF.
  
  Recent changes include:

  * Expanded the section on possible `error conditions`_.

.. adding line for space

* `Creating Peer Assessments`_

* `edX Research Guide`_

* `edX Platform Developer's Guide`_

* `edX XBlock Documentation`_

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_

* `edX Open Learning XML Guide`_

* `edX Platform API`_

**************************
Other edX Resources
**************************

You can access the `edX Status`_ page to get an up-to-date status for all
services on edx.org and edX Edge. The page also includes the Twitter feed for
@edXstatus, which the edX Operations team uses to post updates.

You can access the public `edX roadmap`_ for details about the currently
planned product direction.

.. include:: ../links.rst