decisions/0001-develop-documentation-translation-process.rst, before:

#############################################
Develop the Documentation Translation Process
#############################################


***********
Description
***********

The edx-documentation repo contains important documentation written in English.
Many users have a requirement for the important information found in this
repository to be available in other languages. In order to provide the
documentation in a variety of languages, a process must be designed and agreed
upon to serve the greater open source community.

In this ADR, we will describe:
 #. When the translation process is triggered
 #. How the translation process is triggered
 #. How the translation process works
 #. How the documentation will stay updated
 #. How the translated documents will be integrated back into the documentation


************************
Answers to the questions
************************

1. When is the translation process triggered?
=============================================

Every six months, a newly named Open edX release is created, which includes the
documentation. When this release is "cut", the translation process should also
be triggered. For example, where the Nutmeg version of the Open edX software is
released, the translation process should also be triggered to translate the
Nutmeg Documentation.

2. How is the translation process triggered?
=============================================

An Admin account must add documents to a Transifex Project in order for them to
be translated. Admin accounts have access to financial information and the
ability to delete Transifex Projects. In order to keep this part of the process
secure, we believe that a human should be involved in this process to assure
that financial information stays in the right hands and so that an accidental
merge will not delete Transifex projects. Currently, a GitHub bot account with
Admin access to Transifex updates the translations for several repositories.
This is the old and insecure way of doing it that neither Transifex nor GitHub
recommend. We are retiring that bot account in preference to this secure and
modern method. We believe that elevated permissions should not be granted to a
bot or an app, and we should instead do a bit of the work manually to ensure
that we receive the results we want. That is not to say that some parts of this
process cannot be automated.

Bringing translatable documentation material into Transifex:
 #. A new named Open edX release branch of edx-documentation repo is made that
    matches the "open-release/<release name>" pattern.
 #. A github action will create a Pull Request containing generated files that
    contain the strings to be translated via Transifex. A Transifex Admin will
    be tagged as a reviewer to complete the PR.
 #. The Transifex Admin will then locally run the script that places the
    generated files into a properly named Project in Transifex.
 #. Once the Transifex Project is ready for translators, the Transifex Admin
    will merge the PR, creating a record that the material is on Transifex and
    ready to be translated by the greater open source community.

3. How does the translation process work?
=============================================

Translators use Transifex to translate strings stripped from the documentation.
These strings are kept in a Project in Transifex, where each string belongs to
a uniquely named document, which is related to a document in the documentation.
In Transifex, Projects can be grouped together to share the same "Transifex
Memory". Through this feature, strings from previous releases of the
documentation that are identical to the current release of documentation will
be automatically translated, thus speeding up the time it takes to translate
the entire document. For example, if the Nutmeg release has been completely
translated and is in Transifex Memory, when the Olive release is cut, the
strings will look for identical strings from the Documentation in the Nutmeg
release and automatically populate them.

Upcoming work will automate the process of syncing files between GitHub and
Transifex via an established but new to us GitHub App. A GitHub App is an
integration between two services, in this case, GitHub and Transifex. Once a
preset fraction of the strings are translated, the GitHub App integrated with
Transifex will create a new Pull Request and notify Transifex Admins by adding
them for a review. Once reviewed, a Transifex Admin will then merge the Pull
Request. In addition, this syncing process can be run regularly after the
threshold is reached in order to increase the fraction of strings translated.

4. How will the documentation stay updated?
===========================================

The documentation for each new Open edX release is often updated while the
software it documents is updated. Unfortunately, this means that as the
documentation is finalized, the strings that need to be translated, will change
as well. Luckily, Transifex already supplies this `functionality`_. Strings
that are updated will need to be translated, but strings that stay the same
will keep their translations.

We will first upload documentation to Transifex any branch that matches the
pattern we currently use. We will also set the GitHub integration to re-upload
document strings with every merge to that branch, that way Translators will
always have the latest strings. Translators will then translate the strings.
And as the documentation is updated, translators can also translate those
updated strings.

Is this ideal? No. Translators may have to retranslate the contents of a
document that was already translated before it was updated. It is a concession
we have to make if we want updated software, and we want those updates
documented, and we want that documentation translated. There will always be
some inefficiencies in this pipeline as those three tasks cannot work perfectly
in parallel since software updates continuously.

.. _functionality: https://docs.transifex.com/projects/updating-content/

5. How will the translated documents be integrated back into the documentation?
===============================================================================

Currently, translated documents are placed back into the same repositories that
untranslated documents are extracted from. As part of a second phase to this
work, a new repository will be made to separate translations from the documents
they translate. Translated documents will be kept in a newly created separate
repository to avoid having to recut a named Open edX release everytime
translations are added or updated. During the building process of the
documents, it will check for the existence of these translated documents, and
build with them if they exist.

Like in the `python documentation`_, both release versions and translation
language will be available for selection as both are currently supported by
Sphinx and Read the Docs. In addition, a default language will be automatically
selected via locale. So for example, if the default options for Open edX
documentation readers in the US locale is English and the Maple Release, they
would be able to select the documentation for Lilac in Spanish via dropdown
menus.

.. _python documentation: https://docs.python.org/3/


*********
Rationale
*********

This process is guided by the respect for secure measures with financial
information, the desire to keep everything as open source as possible by
keeping PR records, and by the hybrid Human-Computer process involved with
translating documentation.


**********
Next Steps
**********

Not all of the documentation lives in the openedx/edx-documentation repository.
In the future documentation will continue to be distributed amongst a number of
repositories. The process described here will be used as a guide to bring
Translations efficiently and consistently to all Open edX documentation
repositories.


******************
Location in GitHub
******************

The documentation will remain in openedx/edx-documentation. It time permits,
engineering work will be done so that the translations can be located in a new
repository named openedx/documentation-translations. If not, the translations
will be co-located with the original strings as per the pattern in other Open
edX repositories.

Moving the translations to their own repository could be beneficial. Keeping
the translations separate from the code that generates the documentation could
decrease repo clone/pull time. In addition, all translations could be kept in
the same repo, and only the translations needed could be pulled from this repo.
Lastly, when a new release of the documentation is cut, it can be separate from
the translations that may be updating over a longer period of time, but still
connected to a specific version of the documentation.

Commit message:

docs: Add open-release automated script details

decisions/0001-develop-documentation-translation-process.rst, after:

#############################################
Develop the Documentation Translation Process
#############################################


***********
Description
***********

The edx-documentation repo contains important documentation written in English.
Many users have a requirement for the important information found in this
repository to be available in other languages. In order to provide the
documentation in a variety of languages, a process must be designed and agreed
upon to serve the greater open source community.

In this ADR, we will describe:
 #. When the translation process is triggered
 #. How the translation process is triggered
 #. How the translation process works
 #. How the documentation will stay updated
 #. How the translated documents will be integrated back into the documentation


************************
Answers to the questions
************************

1. When is the translation process triggered?
=============================================

Every six months, a newly named Open edX release is created, which includes the
documentation. When this release is "cut", the translation process should also
be triggered. For example, where the Nutmeg version of the Open edX software is
released, the translation process should also be triggered to translate the
Nutmeg Documentation.

2. How is the translation process triggered?
=============================================

An Admin account must add documents to a Transifex Project in order for them to
be translated. Admin accounts have access to financial information and the
ability to delete Transifex Projects. In order to keep this part of the process
secure, we believe that a human should be involved in this process to assure
that financial information stays in the right hands and so that an accidental
merge will not delete Transifex projects. Currently, a GitHub bot account with
Admin access to Transifex updates the translations for several repositories.
This is the old and insecure way of doing it that neither Transifex nor GitHub
recommend. We are retiring that bot account in preference to this secure and
modern method. We believe that elevated permissions should not be granted to a
bot or an app, and we should instead do a bit of the work manually to ensure
that we receive the results we want. That is not to say that some parts of this
process cannot be automated.

Bringing translatable documentation material into Transifex:
 #. A new named Open edX release branch of edx-documentation repo is made by an
    `automated script`_ that matches the "open-release/<release name>" pattern.
 #. A github action will create a Pull Request containing generated files that
    contain the strings to be translated via Transifex. A Transifex Admin will
    be tagged as a reviewer to complete the PR.
 #. The Transifex Admin will then locally run the script that places the
    generated files into a properly named Project in Transifex.
 #. Once the Transifex Project is ready for translators, the Transifex Admin
    will merge the PR, creating a record that the material is on Transifex and
    ready to be translated by the greater open source community.

.. _automated script: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/COMM/pages/19662426/Process+to+Create+an+Open+edX+Release#Making-the-release-branches

3. How does the translation process work?
=============================================

Translators use Transifex to translate strings stripped from the documentation.
These strings are kept in a Project in Transifex, where each string belongs to
a uniquely named document, which is related to a document in the documentation.
In Transifex, Projects can be grouped together to share the same "Transifex
Memory". Through this feature, strings from previous releases of the
documentation that are identical to the current release of documentation will
be automatically translated, thus speeding up the time it takes to translate
the entire document. For example, if the Nutmeg release has been completely
translated and is in Transifex Memory, when the Olive release is cut, the
strings will look for identical strings from the Documentation in the Nutmeg
release and automatically populate them.

Upcoming work will automate the process of syncing files between GitHub and
Transifex via an established but new to us GitHub App. A GitHub App is an
integration between two services, in this case, GitHub and Transifex. Once a
preset fraction of the strings are translated, the GitHub App integrated with
Transifex will create a new Pull Request and notify Transifex Admins by adding
them for a review. Once reviewed, a Transifex Admin will then merge the Pull
Request. In addition, this syncing process can be run regularly after the
threshold is reached in order to increase the fraction of strings translated.

4. How will the documentation stay updated?
===========================================

The documentation for each new Open edX release is often updated while the
software it documents is updated. Unfortunately, this means that as the
documentation is finalized, the strings that need to be translated, will change
as well. Luckily, Transifex already supplies this `functionality`_. Strings
that are updated will need to be translated, but strings that stay the same
will keep their translations.

We will first upload documentation to Transifex any branch that matches the
pattern we currently use. We will also set the GitHub integration to re-upload
document strings with every merge to that branch, that way Translators will
always have the latest strings. Translators will then translate the strings.
And as the documentation is updated, translators can also translate those
updated strings.

Is this ideal? No. Translators may have to retranslate the contents of a
document that was already translated before it was updated. It is a concession
we have to make if we want updated software, and we want those updates
documented, and we want that documentation translated. There will always be
some inefficiencies in this pipeline as those three tasks cannot work perfectly
in parallel since software updates continuously.

.. _functionality: https://docs.transifex.com/projects/updating-content/

5. How will the translated documents be integrated back into the documentation?
===============================================================================

Currently, translated documents are placed back into the same repositories that
untranslated documents are extracted from. As part of a second phase to this
work, a new repository will be made to separate translations from the documents
they translate. Translated documents will be kept in a newly created separate
repository to avoid having to recut a named Open edX release everytime
translations are added or updated. During the building process of the
documents, it will check for the existence of these translated documents, and
build with them if they exist.

Like in the `python documentation`_, both release versions and translation
language will be available for selection as both are currently supported by
Sphinx and Read the Docs. In addition, a default language will be automatically
selected via locale. So for example, if the default options for Open edX
documentation readers in the US locale is English and the Maple Release, they
would be able to select the documentation for Lilac in Spanish via dropdown
menus.

.. _python documentation: https://docs.python.org/3/


*********
Rationale
*********

This process is guided by the respect for secure measures with financial
information, the desire to keep everything as open source as possible by
keeping PR records, and by the hybrid Human-Computer process involved with
translating documentation.


**********
Next Steps
**********

Not all of the documentation lives in the openedx/edx-documentation repository.
In the future documentation will continue to be distributed amongst a number of
repositories. The process described here will be used as a guide to bring
Translations efficiently and consistently to all Open edX documentation
repositories.


******************
Location in GitHub
******************

The documentation will remain in openedx/edx-documentation. It time permits,
engineering work will be done so that the translations can be located in a new
repository named openedx/documentation-translations. If not, the translations
will be co-located with the original strings as per the pattern in other Open
edX repositories.

Moving the translations to their own repository could be beneficial. Keeping
the translations separate from the code that generates the documentation could
decrease repo clone/pull time. In addition, all translations could be kept in
the same repo, and only the translations needed could be pulled from this repo.
Lastly, when a new release of the documentation is cut, it can be separate from
the translations that may be updating over a longer period of time, but still
connected to a specific version of the documentation.
