=============================
Updates to CAPA Problem Types
=============================

This release includes updates and enhancements to the OLX elements and Markdown
formatting that you use for the core CAPA problem types. These changes improve
and expand the structure of the CAPA problems to clearly identify problem
parts. These changes provide a better experience for users who rely on screen
readers or on a keyboard only.

.. important::
  No changes are required to the CAPA problems that you have already added to a
  course. While all existing problems will continue to work as they are, all of
  the problems that you add from this release on should take advantage of the
  updates that are now available.

A description of the changes follows.

* To identify the question or prompt for a problem, a new OLX ``<label>``
  element replaces the ``label=`` attribute. The Markdown formatting that you
  use in the simple editor to identify question text remains the same: ``>>
  <<``.
* To identify helpful advice that provides guidance for how to answer the
  question, a new, optional OLX ``<description>`` element is available. In the
  simple editor, you add the description immediately after the question or
  prompt text within the ``>> <<`` characters, and then separate the question
  from the description with two pipe (``||``) characters.
* To structure problems more logically, including problems that present
  multiple questions, every OLX ``<*response>`` element is now the container
  for all of the other elements for that question, including the  ``<label>``,
  ``<description>``, and ``<solution>`` elements. The exception is
  ``<demandhint>``: these elements remain at the same level as the
  ``<*response>`` element. If you define hints for a problem that includes
  multiple questions, note that they will be most helpful when written for the
  problem as a whole, rather than for just one of the questions.
* To enable screen reader users to distinguish between multiple questions
  within one problem component in the simple editor, new Markdown formatting is
  now available. To separate each question and its answer or answer choices
  from other question-answer sets, you now add a new line with three hyphen
  (``---``) characters between one question-answer set and the next.

The following problem types are affected by these changes.

  * :ref:`Checkbox <Checkbox>` (``<choiceresponse>``)
  * :ref:`Dropdown <Dropdown>` (``<optionresponse>``)
  * :ref:`Math expression input <Math Expression Input>`
    (``<formularesponse>``)
  * :ref:`Multiple choice <Multiple Choice>` (``<multiplechoiceresponse>``)
  * :ref:`Numerical input <Numerical Input>` (``<numericalresponse>``)
  * :ref:`Text input <Text Input>` (``<stringresponse>``)
