
=====================================
Support Levels for Problems and Tools
=====================================

In Studio, the support level for each exercise, problem type, or tool is now
represented with an icon when you select **Advanced**, **HTML**, or **Problem**
to add a new component to your course. The **edX Support Levels** heading next
to the legend provides a link to the documentation describing each of the
:ref:`support levels<Levels of Support>`.

.. image:: /Images/SupportLevelsStudio.png
    :width: 800
    :alt: In Studio when you select "Advanced", "HTML", or "Problem"
     under "Add New Component", the support level of each available problem
     or tool is represented with an icon.

By default, only fully supported or provisionally supported problem types and
tools are available for adding to your course. To add unsupported problems and
tools, you must set the **Add Unsupported Problems and Tools** advanced
setting to ``true``, after which unsupported problem types and tools are also
available in Studio.

.. image:: /Images/SupportAdvancedSetting.png
    :width: 800
    :alt: The "Add Unsupported Problems and Tools" advanced setting in Studio
     must be set to true before unsupported problems and tools are available
     in Studio for adding to a course.

This change improves the authoring experience in Studio by streamlining the
set of tools that is available by default. If you do choose to include
unsupported problem types and tools in your course, they continue to render in
the course as before. In currently running courses, all course content remains
unchanged. For more information, see
:ref:`partnercoursestaff:Add_Unsupported_Exercises_Problems` in the *Building
and Running an edX Course* guide.


========================
Word Cloud Improvements
========================

The provisionally supported word cloud tool has been updated with improvements
to accessibility. Course teams can now add more detailed instructions to their
word cloud exercises using the new **Instructions** field. EdX encourages
course teams who use word clouds in their courses to use both the **Display
Name** and **Instructions** fields to ensure that each word cloud includes an
accessible label for screen reader users. If you do not replace the default
text in the **Display Name** field in the word cloud settings, the display
name "Word Cloud" is used. In addition, the text input boxes now each have an
associated counter that also includes the total number of inputs, so that
screen reader users hear "one of five", for example, when they submit words to
the word cloud.

For details about creating word clouds in your course, see
:ref:`partnercoursestaff:Word Cloud` in the *Building and Running an edX
Course* guide, or :ref:`opencoursestaff:Word Cloud` in the *Building and
Running an Open edX Course* guide.
