
===================================================
Self-Paced or Instructor-Paced Course Configuration
===================================================

Course teams can now select the way a course is delivered to learners: the
**Schedule & Details** page in Studio now includes a setting for either
instructor-paced or self-paced courses.

* If you select the **Instructor-Paced** option, you must set release dates for
  content and due dates for assignments in your course.

* If you select the **Self-Paced** option, your course does not have release
  dates or due dates.

For more information, see :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Setting Course Pacing` in
*Building and Running an edX Course* or :ref:`opencoursestaff:Setting Course
Pacing` in *Building and Running an Open edX Course*.

===================================================
Staff Grading Options for Open Response Assessments
===================================================

The latest enhancement to open response assessments is the ability for course
staff to grade learner responses. Course staff now have two options to grade
learner responses in open response assessments.

* In Studio, course teams can now design open response assessments to include a
  staff assessment step as part of the assignment.

* In the LMS, course teams can now perform an assessment of any individual
  learner’s response at any time to override their assignment grade.

For more information, see :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Managing ORA Assignments` in
*Building and Running an edX Course*.

=====
Teams
=====

Using teams to divide learners into smaller groups is an effective way to
provide small group interactions and projects in your course.

You can now design a course to include teams. To enable teams in Studio, you
configure team size and set up team topics on the **Advanced Settings** page.

When teams are enabled, a learner can browse topics and then create a team to
take part in group activities within the chosen topic.

For more information see :ref:`partnercoursestaff:CA_Teams_Overview` in
*Building and Running an edX Course*.

=============
Other Changes
=============

An error that prevented LaTeX (MathJax) formatted equations entered in the Raw
HTML editor from rendering correctly has been resolved. (TNL-3968)
