.. _Cohorts Overview:


#############################
Using Cohorts in your Courses
#############################

By :ref:`setting up cohorts<Enabling and Configuring Cohorts>` in a course, you
create smaller communities of students. You can design different course
experiences for students in different cohorts. In discussion topics that are
divided by cohort, students can also communicate and share experiences privately
within the cohort that they are assigned to. Cohort-specific discussion
opportunities can help students develop a sense of community, provide
specialized experiences, and encourage deeper, more meaningful course
involvement.

If you use cohorts in your course, you define a set of cohorts that reflect
communities of students, then select a strategy for :ref:`assigning students to
cohorts<Options for Assigning Students to Cohorts>`.

.. note::    
   * Every student must be assigned to a cohort. This ensures that
     every student has the ability to read and contribute to course discussion
     topics.

   * Each student can be in one and only one cohort. 

   To provide students with a consistent experience throughout the course run,
   do not change cohort configuration or a student's cohort assignment after
   your course begins.

For more information about using cohorts in courses, see:

* :ref:`Enabling and Configuring Cohorts`

* :ref:`Setting Up Discussions in Courses with Cohorts<Set up Discussions in
  Cohorted Courses>`

* :ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`

For information about discussions in general, see :ref:`Discussions`.


.. _Options for Assigning Students to Cohorts:

*****************************************
Options for Assigning Students to Cohorts
*****************************************

Students are assigned to cohorts either automatically or manually, depending on
the types of cohort that you create in your course. Manual cohorts do not have
students assigned to them unless you manually add students. Automatic cohorts
have students randomly assigned to them if students do not belong to any cohort
by the time they access the course content (including the course **Discussion**
page or content-specific discussion topics). If you have not created any
automated cohorts by the time students access course content, a default
automated cohort is created and used for automatic assignment so that no student
in the course is without a cohort.

.. note:: You can add students manually to any cohort, whether it was created as
   an automated cohort or a manual cohort.

You can use a hybrid assignment method by creating a combination of automated
and manual cohorts. Typically, your purpose in including the cohort feature in
your course determines which assignment option you use for your course.

.. note:: Although you can change the assignment method of a cohort at any time
   after you create it, you should have a cohort assignment strategy in mind as you
   design your course, and only make changes to cohorts while the course is running
   if absolutely necessary. Be aware of the implications of changing cohort
   configuration while your course is running. For more information, see
   :ref:`Altering Cohort Configuration` and . In general, to provide students with a
   consistent experience throughout the course run, do not change cohort
   configuration or a student's cohort assignment after your course begins.

For more information about strategies for assigning students to cohorts, see the
following topics.

* :ref:`All Automated Assignment`

* :ref:`All Manual Assignment`

* :ref:`Hybrid Assignment`

* :ref:`Default Cohort Group`
  


.. _All Automated Assignment:

========================================================
Automated Assignment: Making MOOC Discussions Manageable
========================================================

In very large courses, the number of posts that are made to course discussion
topics can make for a daunting amount of daily reading. In such courses,
dividing the enrollees into separate cohorts makes the volume of posts,
responses, and comments by the members of each cohort more manageable, and is
more likely to foster community feeling.

If you use the automated assignment strategy, you create several "auto"
(automated) cohorts. Learners are automatically and randomly assigned to one of
the auto cohorts when they first view any course content, including the course
**Discussion** page or content-specific discussion topics. In this way, each
learner in your course is assigned to a cohort; no learner is unassigned.

The following guidelines are based on the experiences of MOOC teams that have
used cohorts in this way. They are suggested to help you determine how many
automated cohorts to define for your course.

* Each cohort should be large enough to inspire lively participation and
  diverse points of view, but small enough to allow a sense of community to
  develop. Cohorts formed by random assignment tend to be successful if they
  include between 200 and 500 members.

* For every 10,000 students who enroll, approximately 200 to 400 students
  remain active in the discussions throughout the course run. 

* Divide the estimated total enrollment of the course run by 10,000.

* Use the result as the number of automated cohorts to create.

For example, two days before it starts, a course has an enrollment of 80,000
students. To create small communities within the discussions, the course team
enables cohorts and then creates eight automated cohorts. As learners visit the
**Discussion** page or view the course content, they are randomly assigned to
one of the eight cohorts. In divided discussion topics, students read and
respond only to contributions made by other members of the same cohort.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Automated Assignment
Strategy`.


.. _All Manual Assignment:

=====================================================
Manual Assignment: Grouping by Common Characteristics
=====================================================

In SPOCs and other courses with small- to medium-sized enrollments, known
existing commonalities can be used to identify cohorts. An example is a course
that enrolls students from different companies or with different educational
backgrounds, or members of alumni or parent groups. When students are assigned
to cohorts on the basis of a characteristic that they share, they can privately
discuss applications for what they are learning and explore resources and ideas
that are of particular interest.

To implement this assignment strategy, you identify the "real-world" cohorts
that your students already belong to. You enable cohorts and then create
"manual" cohorts to represent each of the real-world cohorts. You then manually
assign each student to a cohort. Every student who enrolls, including those who
enroll after the course starts, must be assigned to a cohort.

.. note:: To ensure that every student is assigned to a cohort, you can set up a
   single automated cohort, as described for the :ref:`hybrid assignment strategy<Hybrid Assignment>`. If you do not create an automated cohort, the
   system automatically creates a :ref:`default cohort<Default Cohort Group>` and
   assigns students to it if necessary.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Manual Assignment Strategy`.


.. _Hybrid Assignment:

=============================================================
Hybrid Assignment: Accommodating Small Groups Within a Course
=============================================================

For some courses, the manual assignment strategy is not feasible to execute, and
the automated assignment strategy does not accommodate existing cohorts in the
student body. The enrollment might be too large to complete manual assignments
effectively, or only some of the students might have strong defining
characteristics among an otherwise diverse student body. For these courses, you
can use a hybrid of the two strategies to implement cohorts.

An example is a course that enrolls members of an alumni association. The alumni
want an opportunity to have private interactions, so manual assignment of those
students to a cohort makes sense. For other students in the class, manual
assignment is not needed: you can create one or more automated cohorts for those
students.

Before you implement the hybrid strategy, you identify the characteristics that
define existing cohorts in the student body. You also decide whether you want
the remaining students in the course to be divided into their own, similarly-
sized cohorts, or if you want them all to be in just one other cohort.

After you enable cohorts, you create a manual cohort for each student group that
you identified. You manually assign students who belong to each group to the
corresponding cohort. You also set up automated cohorts for the other students
in the course, or rely on the default automated cohort. Any students who are not
assigned to a manual cohort are automatically assigned to one of the automated
cohorts, or to the default cohort if you choose to use it, when they first view
any course content, including the course **Discussion** page or content-specific
discussion topics. For best results when you use this strategy, you should
complete all manual cohort assignments before the course starts and before
students begin viewing course content and discussion topics.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Automated Assignment
Strategy` and :ref:`Implementing the Manual Assignment Strategy`.


.. _Default Cohort Group:

===========================================================
Ensuring That All Students Are Assigned: The Default Cohort
===========================================================

If you enable cohorts in your course, all students must be assigned to a cohort.
To ensure that there are no students in the course without a cohort, the system
automatically creates a default cohort and assigns students to it if necessary.

The default cohort is created only if you have not created at least one
automated assignment cohort in your course by the time that the first student
accesses your course content. Students who have not been manually assigned to a
cohort when they access the course content are automatically assigned to the
default cohort.

Students who are assigned to the default cohort see a cohort name of "Default
Group" in discussion posts. If you want students to see a different name for the
default cohort, you can change its name. For details about renaming cohorts, see
:ref:`Renaming a Cohort`.

.. image:: ../../../shared/building_and_running_chapters/Images/post_visible_default.png
 :alt: A discussion topic post with "This post is visible to Default Group" 
       above the title

You can check the :ref:`student profile information report<View and download
student data>` for your course to see if any students are assigned to the
default cohort in your course, and change their cohort assignments. Note,
however, that in divided discussion topics students can only see posts by
members of their currently assigned cohort: when a student is reassigned, posts
that he previously saw will seem to have "disappeared". To avoid negatively
affecting the student experiement, any cohort assignment changes should be done
as early in the course run as possible, so that students' views of discussion
posts and contributions remain consistent over time.
