==================================
EdX Documentation Resources
==================================

EdX publishes documentation on the `docs.edx.org`_ website. Guides are
available to help learners, course teams, researchers, developers, and other
audiences use edX websites and software effectively.

.. remove the following week of 1 Feb:

As of 1 January 2016, the edX documentation team no longer maintains an
individual change log for each guide. These release notes provide a weekly
summary of platform changes, and include links to more complete documentation
when it is available. If you are interested in detailed information about every
change made to the edX documentation set, the `edx-documentation`_ repository
on GitHub provides a complete record.

==================================
Documentation for edx.org Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on the `edx.org`_ or edge.edx.org websites.

Building and Running an edX Course
************************************

* A topic on :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Setting Course Pacing` is now available.

* A topic on :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Managing ORA Assignments` is now
  available.

* A topic on :ref:`partnercoursestaff:CA_Teams_Overview` is now available.

* Another use case for Office Mix has been added to the description of the
  :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Office Mix Tool`. In this use case, after you
  create a mix you export the presentation to video and then include it in
  your course using the video component.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on an Open edX instance.

Building and Running an Open edX Course
******************************************

A topic on :ref:`opencoursestaff:Setting Course Pacing` is now available.

