==================================
EdX Documentation Resources
==================================

EdX publishes documentation on the `docs.edx.org`_ website. Guides are
available to help learners, course teams, researchers, developers, and other
audiences use edX websites and software effectively.

==================================
Release Notes for 2013-2014
==================================

Release notes for 2013 and 2014 are now located in a separate guide,
:ref:`2014releasenotes:document index`. Release notes for 2015 and 2016 are
still available at :ref:`partnerreleasenotes:document index`.

==================================
Documentation for edx.org Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on the `edx.org`_ or edge.edx.org websites.

Building and Running an edX Course
************************************

The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Notes Tool` topic is now available.

edX Learner's Guide
**********************************

The :ref:`learners:SFD Notes` topic is now available.

EdX Research Guide
*********************

The :ref:`data:notes` section lists the seven new events that are included with
the new Notes tool.


==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on an Open edX instance.



Installing, Configuring, and Running the Open edX Platform
************************************************************

The :ref:`installation:Configure OAuth Token Expiration Days` topic is now
available.

