

==================================
Documentation for edx.org Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on the `edx.org`_ or edge.edx.org websites.

Building and Running an edX Course
************************************

* The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Adding Pages to a Course` topic in the *Building
  and Running an edX Course* guide now includes information about how to hide
  the course **Progress** page.

* The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Adjust_grades` section in the *Building and
  Running an edX Course* guide has been updated. This section now also
  includes information about how to update grades for open response assessment
  (ORA) problems.

* A clarification about using the edx.org website during a proctored exam has
  been added to the :ref:`partnercoursestaff:Online Proctoring Rules` topic.

edX Learner's Guide
**********************************

* The :ref:`learners:Video Player` topic includes updated images and an updated
  description of the video player controls.

* A clarification about using the edx.org website during a proctored exam has
  been added to the :ref:`learners:Online Proctoring Rules` topic.

* The :ref:`learners:SFD Mobile` section includes a new topic about creating
  and editing user profiles in the edX mobile apps.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on an Open edX instance.

Building and Running an Open edX Course
******************************************

* The :ref:`opencoursestaff:Adding Pages to a Course` topic in the *Building
  and Running an Open edX Course* guide now includes information about how to
  hide the course **Progress** page.

* The :ref:`opencoursestaff:Adjust_grades` section in the *Building and Running
  an Open edX Course* guide has been updated. This section now also includes
  information about how to update grades for open response assessment (ORA)
  problems.

Open edX Learner's Guide
**********************************

* The :ref:`openlearners:Video Player` topic includes updated images and an
  updated description of the video player controls.
