
.. remove the following week of 1 Feb:

As of 1 January 2016, the edX documentation team no longer maintains an
individual change log for each guide. These release notes provide a weekly
summary of platform changes, and include links to more complete documentation
when it is available. If you are interested in detailed information about every
change made to the edX documentation set, the `edx-documentation`_ repository
on GitHub provides a complete record.

==================================
Documentation for edx.org Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on the `edx.org`_ or edge.edx.org websites.

Building and Running an edX Course
************************************

The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:UBC Peer Instruction` topic is now available.

edX Learner's Guide
**********************************

The :ref:`learners:interactive_multiple_choice` topic is now available.

EdX Research Guide
*********************

* The :ref:`data:Peer Instruction Events` section now lists events that
  identify when a peer instruction component is accessed, and when an initial
  answer or a final answer is submitted.

* Information about the new ``audit_notpassing`` and ``audit_passing`` statuses
  has been added to the *EdX Research Guide*. For more information, see
  ref:`data:certificates_generatedcertificate`.

==================================
Documentation for Open edX Users
==================================

Guides described in this section are intended for audiences that are using, or
learning about, courses on an Open edX instance.

Building and Running an Open edX Course
******************************************

The :ref:`partnercoursestaff:UBC Peer Instruction` topic is now available.

Open edX Learner's Guide
**********************************

The :ref:`openlearners:interactive_multiple_choice` topic is now available.

