en_us/shared/students/SFD_dashboard_profile.rst, before:

.. This content is used as "include" in both the Learner's Guide and Building
.. and Running Guide. SFD_dashboard_profile_SectionHead and
.. CA_dashboard_profile_SectionHead files.

You can access course, account, or profile information from any page on the
website, whether you are in a course or browsing the course catalog. Select the
dropdown menu icon next to your username, and then choose one of the following
menu options.

* :ref:`Dashboard<SFD Learner Dashboard>` gives you access to the courses and
  programs that you have enrolled in, and to information such as course start
  and end dates, certificates, and email settings.

* :ref:`Profile <SFD Profile Page>` gives you the option to provide personal
  information about yourself that other course participants can see, such as an
  image and biographical information.

* :ref:`Account<SFD Update Account Settings>` gives you access to your account
  settings and preferences. For example, you can update your password or email
  address and set your :ref:`time zone<Time Zones>`.

  .. only:: Partners

    On the **Account Settings** page, you can also view your :ref:`edX order
    history<View Order History>` and link your edX account to a social media or
    organization account.


.. _SFD Learner Dashboard:

******************************************
Accessing Your Courses from the Dashboard
******************************************

Your dashboard lists all of the courses that you are enrolled in. When you
create an account or enroll in a course, you automatically go to your
dashboard. You can also access your dashboard by selecting the dropdown menu
icon next to your username at the top of any page.

.. image:: ../../shared/images/dashboard_menu.png
 :width: 300
 :alt: The menu that appears on the website when you select the
     dropdown icon next to your username. The Dashboard option is circled, and
     the other options are Profile, Account, and Sign Out.

You can find information about your courses and change course-specific email
subscription settings on your dashboard. For more information, see :ref:`Find or
Change Course Information`.

.. only:: Partners

  Your dashboard has two pages.

  * The **Courses** page lists all the courses you have enrolled in, whether
    the course is current or has ended. The **Courses** page provides
    information about your courses and allows you to change course settings. By
    default, the dashboard opens to the **Courses** page.

  * The **Programs** page lists any programs, such as XSeries or MicroMasters
    programs, that edX offers for courses that you are enrolled in. Programs
    appear on this page if you are enrolled in any course that is part of that
    program. For more information, see :ref:`Programs Page`.

.. _Social Sharing:

======================================
Sharing Your Courses on Social Media
======================================

On your dashboard, you can share the courses you are enrolled in on social
media sites such as Facebook and Twitter.

.. only:: Open_edX

 This feature is available only if it has been enabled by your course provider.

#. Sign in to the social media site on which you want to share your course
   enrollment.

#. From your dashboard, find the course that you want to share.

#. Select the icon for the social media site where you want to share.
   A dialog box for the social media site you selected opens, with the course
   URL entered and a default social media message.

#. Optionally, modify the text of the social media message.

#. Select the appropriate button to publish your message on the social media
   site.

.. only:: Partners

  .. _Programs Page:

  =======================
  Explore edX Programs
  =======================

  The **Programs** page lists the :ref:`programs<About Programs>` that you have
  enrolled in. You see a program on this page if you are enrolled in any courses
  that are part of that program.

  On the **Programs** page, you can perform the following actions.

  * Access information about a program and enroll in more of the program's
    courses.

    To access information about a program, select that program. A page opens
    that provides details about the program, as well as links to enroll in or
    upgrade to the verified track in all courses in that program.

  * View your progress for each program.

    Under the name of each program are indications of your progress through the
    program. You see the number of courses in the program that you have
    completed, the number of courses in the program that you are enrolled in,
    and the number of courses in the program that you are not yet enrolled in.

  * Access any program certificates you have earned.

    In the right pane, a **Program Certificates** list shows the names of
    programs for which you have earned certificates. For more information about
    the program, or to view the certificate, select the name of the program.



.. _SFD Profile Page:

***************************
Adding Profile Information
***************************

Your personal profile allows you to optionally share information about yourself
with other participants in the courses that you take. If you choose to add
profile information, course teams and other learners in your courses can view
the information that you share.

You can share either a limited profile or a full profile.

  .. note:: If you are under 13 years of age, your limited profile only
     includes your username. You cannot add a profile picture.

* A limited profile shares only your username. You can also add a profile
  picture, if you are over 13 years of age.

  .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_Limited.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: A learner's limited profile showing only username and image.

* A full profile includes the following details.

  * Your full name
  * Your username
  * Your profile image (optional)
  * The date that you joined edX
  * Your language (optional)
  * Your location (optional)
  * Information about you (optional)
  * Links to any course certificates that you have earned
  * Links to your social media accounts (optional)

  .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_Full.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: A learner's full profile shows full name, join date, location,
     language, biographical information, links to course certificates, and
     linked social media icons, in addition to username and profile image.


.. _Create or Edit a Limited Profile:

================================
Add or Update a Limited Profile
================================

A limited profile includes only your username and, optionally, an image.

.. note:: If you are under 13 years of age, your limited profile only includes
   your username. You cannot add a profile picture.

To add or update a limited profile, follow these steps.


#. At the top of any page, select **Dashboard** from the dropdown menu icon next
   to your username, then select the **Profile** tab.

#. In the header area of your profile page, for **Profile Visibility**, select
   **Limited Profile**.

#. (optional) Add an image that you want to associate with your username.
   Your image must be a .gif, .jpg, or .png file. The image must be between
   100 bytes and 1 MB in size. If you do not add an image, the placeholder
   image appears as your profile image.

   #. Move your cursor over the placeholder image, and click **Upload an
      image**.

      .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_UploadImage.png
       :width: 250
       :alt: A profile with the image upload area selected.

   #. In the file navigation window, select the image file that you want to
      use as your profile image, and then click **Open**.

   To change or remove your profile image, move your cursor over your image,
   and then select either **Change image** or **Remove**. When you remove your
   profile image, the placeholder image appears as your profile image.

The site saves your changes automatically.


================================
Add or Update a Full Profile
================================

.. note:: You must specify your year of birth on the **Account Settings** page
   before you can share a full profile. If you are under 13 years of age, you
   can share only a :ref:`limited profile <Create or Edit a Limited Profile>`.

If you create a full profile, you share the following information in
addition to your username and profile image.

* Your full name.

* Your location.

* Your language.

* A paragraph about yourself. You might include your interests, goals, or
  other information that you want to share. This paragraph can contain up to
  300 characters.

* Links to your personal social media accounts.

To add or update your profile, follow these steps.

#. At the top of any page, select **Dashboard** from the dropdown menu icon next
   to your username, then select the **Profile** tab.

#. In the header area of your profile page, for **Profile Visibility**, select
   **Full Profile**.

#. (optional) Add a profile image.

   Your image must be a .gif, .jpg, or .png file that is less than 1 MB in
   size. If you do not add an image, the placeholder image appears as your
   profile image.

   #. Move your cursor over the placeholder image, and click **Upload an
      image**.

   #. In the file navigation window, select the image file that you want to
      use as your profile image, and then click **Open**.

   To change or remove your profile image, move your cursor over your image,
   and then select either **Change image** or **Remove**. When you remove your
   profile image, the placeholder image appears as your profile image.

#. On your profile page, move your cursor over the information that you want
   to change.

#. Click inside the field to choose an option from the list, or enter text.

The site saves your changes automatically.

.. note:: If you change your profile type from **Full Profile** to **Limited
   Profile**, your full name, location, language, and descriptive paragraph
   are no longer visible on your profile page. However, this information is
   saved, and becomes visible again to other learners and course teams if you
   change your profile back to **Full Profile**.


.. _Add Profile Links to Social Media Accounts:

=================================================
Add Links to Your Personal Social Media Accounts
=================================================

If you select the **Full Profile** option, you can add social media icons on
your profile that link to your personal Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn account
pages.

To add links to your social media accounts to your profile, follow these steps.

#. At the top of any page, select **Account** from the dropdown menu icon next
   to your username.

#. On the **Account Settings** page, under **Social Media Links**, enter
   either your username or the URL to the profile page for each social media
   account that you want to add to your profile.

   For example, if your Facebook username is ``edx``, you can enter either
   ``edx`` or ``https://www.facebook.com/edx``.

   For LinkedIn, note that your username might include numbers. For example,
   if the URL of your LinkedIn profile page is ``https://www.linkedin.com/in
   /firstname-lastname-123456/``, your LinkedIn username is ``firstname-
   lastname-123456``.

The site saves your changes when you click outside the text field.

When you view your profile, icons for the social media icons that you added
links for appear below your username. Other learners or course team members
can click those icons to visit your social media account page.

  .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_Full_SocialMediaIcons.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: A learner's full profile, with social media icons circled.


================================
View Another Learner's Profile
================================

You can view other learners' profiles through their posts, responses, or
comments in course discussions.

#. On the **Discussion** page, select the username of any learner in a post, a
   response, or a comment.

   A page that displays the discussion activity only for the selected learner
   opens.

#. On the learner's **Discussion** page, select their linked username.

The learner's account profile page opens.



.. _Find or Change Course Information:

*********************************
Updating Course-Specific Settings
*********************************

From the dashboard, access the courses that you are enrolled in and change
course-specific settings. You can also :ref:`unenroll from a course<Unenroll
from a Course>` from the dashboard.

.. _Change a Course Email Preference:

=================================
Change a Course Email Preference
=================================

To subscribe or unsubscribe to emails from a course, follow these steps.

#. On your dashboard, locate the course.

#. Select the course settings icon. The course settings icon resembles a gear
   and appears next to **View Course** or **View Archived Course**.

   .. image:: ../../shared/images/LearnDash_GearIcon.png
     :width: 200
     :alt: The course settings icon next to the View Course button on the
           learner dashboard.

#. Select **Email Settings**.

#. Select or clear the **Receive course emails** check box, and then select
   **Save Settings**.

   .. note:: If you clear this check box, you will not receive any of the
        email messages that course teams send to communicate with enrolled
        learners in the course.

Commit message:

docs: update info for social media course sharing

en_us/shared/students/SFD_dashboard_profile.rst, after:

.. This content is used as "include" in both the Learner's Guide and Building
.. and Running Guide. SFD_dashboard_profile_SectionHead and
.. CA_dashboard_profile_SectionHead files.

You can access course, account, or profile information from any page on the
website, whether you are in a course or browsing the course catalog. Select the
dropdown menu icon next to your username, and then choose one of the following
menu options.

* :ref:`Dashboard<SFD Learner Dashboard>` gives you access to the courses and
  programs that you have enrolled in, and to information such as course start
  and end dates, certificates, and email settings.

* :ref:`Profile <SFD Profile Page>` gives you the option to provide personal
  information about yourself that other course participants can see, such as an
  image and biographical information.

* :ref:`Account<SFD Update Account Settings>` gives you access to your account
  settings and preferences. For example, you can update your password or email
  address and set your :ref:`time zone<Time Zones>`.

  .. only:: Partners

    On the **Account Settings** page, you can also view your :ref:`edX order
    history<View Order History>` and link your edX account to a social media or
    organization account.


.. _SFD Learner Dashboard:

******************************************
Accessing Your Courses from the Dashboard
******************************************

Your dashboard lists all of the courses that you are enrolled in. When you
create an account or enroll in a course, you automatically go to your
dashboard. You can also access your dashboard by selecting the dropdown menu
icon next to your username at the top of any page.

.. image:: ../../shared/images/dashboard_menu.png
 :width: 300
 :alt: The menu that appears on the website when you select the
     dropdown icon next to your username. The Dashboard option is circled, and
     the other options are Profile, Account, and Sign Out.

You can find information about your courses and change course-specific email
subscription settings on your dashboard. For more information, see :ref:`Find or
Change Course Information`.

.. only:: Partners

  Your dashboard has two pages.

  * The **Courses** page lists all the courses you have enrolled in, whether
    the course is current or has ended. The **Courses** page provides
    information about your courses and allows you to change course settings. By
    default, the dashboard opens to the **Courses** page.

  * The **Programs** page lists any programs, such as XSeries or MicroMasters
    programs, that edX offers for courses that you are enrolled in. Programs
    appear on this page if you are enrolled in any course that is part of that
    program. For more information, see :ref:`Programs Page`.

.. _Social Sharing:

======================================
Sharing Your Courses on Social Media
======================================

On your dashboard, you can share the courses you are enrolled in on social
media sites such as Facebook and Twitter.

.. only:: Open_edX

 This feature is available only if it has been enabled by your course provider.

#. Sign in to the social media site on which you want to share your course
   enrollment.

#. From your dashboard, find the course that you want to share.

#. Click or tap the settings button (triple dot icon) at the top of the course
   card. In the dropdown select the "Share to (social media site)" item for the
   social media site of your choice (e.g. Twitter, Facebook). This will open a
   pop up which will allow you to share info about the course to social media.

#. Optionally, modify the text of the social media message.

#. Select the appropriate button to publish your message on the social media
   site.

.. only:: Partners

  .. _Programs Page:

  =======================
  Explore edX Programs
  =======================

  The **Programs** page lists the :ref:`programs<About Programs>` that you have
  enrolled in. You see a program on this page if you are enrolled in any courses
  that are part of that program.

  On the **Programs** page, you can perform the following actions.

  * Access information about a program and enroll in more of the program's
    courses.

    To access information about a program, select that program. A page opens
    that provides details about the program, as well as links to enroll in or
    upgrade to the verified track in all courses in that program.

  * View your progress for each program.

    Under the name of each program are indications of your progress through the
    program. You see the number of courses in the program that you have
    completed, the number of courses in the program that you are enrolled in,
    and the number of courses in the program that you are not yet enrolled in.

  * Access any program certificates you have earned.

    In the right pane, a **Program Certificates** list shows the names of
    programs for which you have earned certificates. For more information about
    the program, or to view the certificate, select the name of the program.



.. _SFD Profile Page:

***************************
Adding Profile Information
***************************

Your personal profile allows you to optionally share information about yourself
with other participants in the courses that you take. If you choose to add
profile information, course teams and other learners in your courses can view
the information that you share.

You can share either a limited profile or a full profile.

  .. note:: If you are under 13 years of age, your limited profile only
     includes your username. You cannot add a profile picture.

* A limited profile shares only your username. You can also add a profile
  picture, if you are over 13 years of age.

  .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_Limited.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: A learner's limited profile showing only username and image.

* A full profile includes the following details.

  * Your full name
  * Your username
  * Your profile image (optional)
  * The date that you joined edX
  * Your language (optional)
  * Your location (optional)
  * Information about you (optional)
  * Links to any course certificates that you have earned
  * Links to your social media accounts (optional)

  .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_Full.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: A learner's full profile shows full name, join date, location,
     language, biographical information, links to course certificates, and
     linked social media icons, in addition to username and profile image.


.. _Create or Edit a Limited Profile:

================================
Add or Update a Limited Profile
================================

A limited profile includes only your username and, optionally, an image.

.. note:: If you are under 13 years of age, your limited profile only includes
   your username. You cannot add a profile picture.

To add or update a limited profile, follow these steps.


#. At the top of any page, select **Dashboard** from the dropdown menu icon next
   to your username, then select the **Profile** tab.

#. In the header area of your profile page, for **Profile Visibility**, select
   **Limited Profile**.

#. (optional) Add an image that you want to associate with your username.
   Your image must be a .gif, .jpg, or .png file. The image must be between
   100 bytes and 1 MB in size. If you do not add an image, the placeholder
   image appears as your profile image.

   #. Move your cursor over the placeholder image, and click **Upload an
      image**.

      .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_UploadImage.png
       :width: 250
       :alt: A profile with the image upload area selected.

   #. In the file navigation window, select the image file that you want to
      use as your profile image, and then click **Open**.

   To change or remove your profile image, move your cursor over your image,
   and then select either **Change image** or **Remove**. When you remove your
   profile image, the placeholder image appears as your profile image.

The site saves your changes automatically.


================================
Add or Update a Full Profile
================================

.. note:: You must specify your year of birth on the **Account Settings** page
   before you can share a full profile. If you are under 13 years of age, you
   can share only a :ref:`limited profile <Create or Edit a Limited Profile>`.

If you create a full profile, you share the following information in
addition to your username and profile image.

* Your full name.

* Your location.

* Your language.

* A paragraph about yourself. You might include your interests, goals, or
  other information that you want to share. This paragraph can contain up to
  300 characters.

* Links to your personal social media accounts.

To add or update your profile, follow these steps.

#. At the top of any page, select **Dashboard** from the dropdown menu icon next
   to your username, then select the **Profile** tab.

#. In the header area of your profile page, for **Profile Visibility**, select
   **Full Profile**.

#. (optional) Add a profile image.

   Your image must be a .gif, .jpg, or .png file that is less than 1 MB in
   size. If you do not add an image, the placeholder image appears as your
   profile image.

   #. Move your cursor over the placeholder image, and click **Upload an
      image**.

   #. In the file navigation window, select the image file that you want to
      use as your profile image, and then click **Open**.

   To change or remove your profile image, move your cursor over your image,
   and then select either **Change image** or **Remove**. When you remove your
   profile image, the placeholder image appears as your profile image.

#. On your profile page, move your cursor over the information that you want
   to change.

#. Click inside the field to choose an option from the list, or enter text.

The site saves your changes automatically.

.. note:: If you change your profile type from **Full Profile** to **Limited
   Profile**, your full name, location, language, and descriptive paragraph
   are no longer visible on your profile page. However, this information is
   saved, and becomes visible again to other learners and course teams if you
   change your profile back to **Full Profile**.


.. _Add Profile Links to Social Media Accounts:

=================================================
Add Links to Your Personal Social Media Accounts
=================================================

If you select the **Full Profile** option, you can add social media icons on
your profile that link to your personal Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn account
pages.

To add links to your social media accounts to your profile, follow these steps.

#. At the top of any page, select **Account** from the dropdown menu icon next
   to your username.

#. On the **Account Settings** page, under **Social Media Links**, enter
   either your username or the URL to the profile page for each social media
   account that you want to add to your profile.

   For example, if your Facebook username is ``edx``, you can enter either
   ``edx`` or ``https://www.facebook.com/edx``.

   For LinkedIn, note that your username might include numbers. For example,
   if the URL of your LinkedIn profile page is ``https://www.linkedin.com/in
   /firstname-lastname-123456/``, your LinkedIn username is ``firstname-
   lastname-123456``.

The site saves your changes when you click outside the text field.

When you view your profile, icons for the social media icons that you added
links for appear below your username. Other learners or course team members
can click those icons to visit your social media account page.

  .. image:: ../../shared/images/SFD_Profile_Full_SocialMediaIcons.png
    :width: 500
    :alt: A learner's full profile, with social media icons circled.


================================
View Another Learner's Profile
================================

You can view other learners' profiles through their posts, responses, or
comments in course discussions.

#. On the **Discussion** page, select the username of any learner in a post, a
   response, or a comment.

   A page that displays the discussion activity only for the selected learner
   opens.

#. On the learner's **Discussion** page, select their linked username.

The learner's account profile page opens.



.. _Find or Change Course Information:

*********************************
Updating Course-Specific Settings
*********************************

From the dashboard, access the courses that you are enrolled in and change
course-specific settings. You can also :ref:`unenroll from a course<Unenroll
from a Course>` from the dashboard.

.. _Change a Course Email Preference:

=================================
Change a Course Email Preference
=================================

To subscribe or unsubscribe to emails from a course, follow these steps.

#. On your dashboard, locate the course.

#. Select the course settings icon. The course settings icon resembles a gear
   and appears next to **View Course** or **View Archived Course**.

   .. image:: ../../shared/images/LearnDash_GearIcon.png
     :width: 200
     :alt: The course settings icon next to the View Course button on the
           learner dashboard.

#. Select **Email Settings**.

#. Select or clear the **Receive course emails** check box, and then select
   **Save Settings**.

   .. note:: If you clear this check box, you will not receive any of the
        email messages that course teams send to communicate with enrolled
        learners in the course.
